ATP 1                      About Them Ponies               24 March 2016


                           About Them Ponies
                        Let’s talk about Ponies!

   I can’t believe I haven’t thought of this earlier!

   As one of those obsessed people who hasn’t stopped thinking about 
   ponies ever since I started watching the show (which I’ll admit, is 
   pretty recent compared to some), I’m surprised the following thought
   did not enter my brain until only yesterday:

   I should write a blog about all things pony!

   In that time since I first watched the show and now, I’ve wanted a 
   way to express my appreciation for the show. I’ve written some fan 
   music, made a few youTube videos, somehow written a fanfic, and 
   participated in commenting on fanworks featured on both on youTube 
   and EQD alike. But although I have enjoyed all of these things, I 
   still feel something missing, some sort of connection to the fandom 
   that I wish I had, but somehow didn’t get. I wanted to be involved, 
   to participate, to talk about the show frequently, and to truly 
   explore what it is that we enjoy so much about this show.

   In some sense, I wanted to be a member of the analysis community, but
   I don’t have the time to learn how to consistently make decent videos
   week in, week out. But I can write, and in every analysis-like video 
   I wanted to make, it was always the content and ideas, not the 
   animation, sound quality, and presentation, that I wanted to put 
   forth. There’s just too many things to worry about in the creation of
   a youtube video, and while that’s not always a bad thing, most of it
   takes away from what I really wanted: to talk about ponies.

   So what do I want? I want an idea channel specifically for the brony 
   fandom. I want open intelligent discussion amongst us all about our 
   favorite cartoon horse program. The analysis community does a great 
   job reviewing episodes, but there’s always more to talk about than 
   just our opinions about episodes. And what about dialog in between 
   both content creator and fan? I don’t see too much of that being done
   in the youtube scene.

   This is my attempt to talk about ponies with every pony. How it will
   turn out I don’t know, but I do see writing a blog and writing 
   comment responses weekly as something I can do. As Celestia as my 
   witness, it’s time to begin!
  







brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

