ATP 14                      About Them Ponies                 8 May 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                  “Newbie Dash” and achieving the dream

   Well, this finally happened! After five complete seasons of Dash
   wanting to become a wonder bolt, she has finally arrived at her
   destination. From being an insanely eager fan, to meeting her idols,
   to working hard and improving one’s self, Dash’s development has been
   the most fleshed out storyline apart from Twilight’s ascension and
   Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, and Sweetie Belle’s crusade for cutie marks.
   Not counting brief encounters like “The Ticket Master,” “The Best
   Night Ever,” and “Hurricane Fluttershy,” there’s a whole seven
   episodes that span Rainbow Dash’s Journey, most of which are
   exclusively about the Wonderbolts.

   Friendhship is Magic → Sonic Rainboom → Wonderbolts Academy → Rainbow
   Falls → Testing, Testing, 1, 2, 3 → Rarity Investigates! → Newbie
   Dash

   That said, Rainbow Dash’s goal has taken more time to achieve than
   both Twilight’s, the CMC’s, and Rarity’s. Every step of the way has
   been a challenge for Rainbow, and having conquered that challenge,
   Rainbow most definitely deserves to stand there among the
   Wonderbolts. The episode wastes no time reestablishing this, and
   immediately jumps into the next chapter. I think this was an
   excellent decision made by the writers because all too often, the
   beginning of every episode can feel bogged down by exposition, and
   with only 23 minutes of screen time, every minute of recap eliminated
   is another minute of actual show.

   And with Rainbow Dash suddenly becoming the Wonderbolt that she’s
   always dreamed, the show jumps back into aftermath mode, which is
   becoming more and more commonplace for episodes. At a quarter of the
   way into the season, it’s kind of intriguing that five of the seven
   episodes deal directly with the continuation of earlier conflicts.
   “The Crystalling” is in response to Starlight Glimmer’s redemption,
   as is “No Second Prances” for Trixie’s past, and obviously “On Your
   Marks” is in response to the CMC’s new butt tattoos. But I digress,
   as the noticeable difference between this week’s episodes and prior
   aftermath episodes is that earlier episodes tend to open up a
   previous conflict, develop it, and then reach a satisfying
   conclusion. However, “Newbie Dash” begins first with a conclusion,
   then develops its story, and leaves it somewhat open by episode’s
   end. It’s almost backwards, but I think it works given that the
   subject of the episode is about what follows once a dream is
   achieved.

   In real life, when a goal is reached, the world doesn’t simply stop
   at that moment; life goes on and the hustle continues. For Dash, this
   means that in addition to all her regular weather responsibilities
   (assuming of course this actually is Rainbow Dash’s full time job),

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 14                      About Them Ponies                 8 May 2016

   she has half a week to get her act together and adjust to a
   completely new lifestyle. That’s remarkably fast, and to be honest,
   it’s not surprising that Rainbow Dash makes a ton of blunders on that
   first day; who wouldn’t. It is these small mistakes from which the
   central conflict of the episode develops.

   This conflict can be summarized by Dash’s line, “I’m finally a
   Wonderbolt, which means that everything has to be totally perfectly
   awesome.” The sarcasm in this line really informs the viewer that
   Dash really is struggling with her fumbles and making a bad first
   impression among her idols, but it also shows her desire to be
   perfectly awesome. It’s a classic Dash conflict, as she wrestles with
   both wanting to be the best and yet not being there quite yet.
   Rainbow’s always been happiest when she’s a confident winner, but
   after a single failure all that confidence starts draining away.

   Nonetheless, Rainbow Dash has much to be proud of. She’s the only
   pony ever to pull off a sonic rainboom, she’s helped save Equestria,
   and now she’s even a Wonderbolt, but she hasn’t yet found balance in
   between her ego and her humility. This episode serves as a great way
   to rehash that message by both promoting her to an even higher level
   of success, but not without making the mistakes readjusting to the
   new position. On the first viewing, these physical and social
   blunders may seem to be the focus of the episode, but on a second
   viewing one realizes they’re a crucial part to Rainbow learning to no
   longer need to insistently show off, and taking the first step beyond
   her dream.

   The best part of the episode by far though has to be its end, when
   after Dash has pushed through her bad day and she’s being forced to
   clean up her mess, Scootaloo asks her, “Why are you in such a good
   mood?” and she replies, “Duh, because I’m a Wonderbolt.” It really
   captures the essence of the episode, as it shows just how happy
   Rainbow Dash is to finally make the team, and just how much she still
   has left to learn.

   Happy first quarter of the new season. Make sure to leave a comment
   with what you thought about the episode, and check back on Thursday
   to read some of the fandom’s thoughts on this week’s episode.

   Also,

   +1 for “Reading Rainboom” reference to “Reading Rainbow”.

   +1 for once again ending the show with the MLP theme. Where the heck
   has it been?






brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

