ATP 19                      About Them Ponies                26 May 2016


                            About Them Ponies
               Responses from EQD: “The Saddle Row Review”

   There’s been all sorts of content SWEEPing through the fandom in
   regards to this week’s episode. Let’s see what people have to say.

   StoleytheGeek(*1) writes the following two responses:

    |
    |  I love this episode, I really do but I honestly thought that this
    |  would be put off until much later in the season. It makes me
    |  wonder if production screwed up again.
    |

    |
    |  She got the shop building in episode three. And judging from how
    |  cryptic the MLP timeline can be, it could be at least a month or
    |  two after she got it. Something like that doesn't take a month or
    |  two, its a huge project.
    |

   StoleytheGeek makes a great point that time in Equestria is pretty
   messed up. I think my favorite example of Equestrian time not lining
   up with the real world is back in season one where one day it was
   time for Winter Wrap up and then two episodes later, it was time for
   the running of the leaves. But if you think about it, Friendship is
   Magic is an episodic series, thus most episodes within a season can
   be switched around without breaking continuity. However, there is
   development that builds from season to season which is why now, way
   out here in season 6, we finally do get to see Rarity open up shops
   and Dash join the wonderbolts.

   Theoretically, one should be able to watch an episode of MLP at
   random and still be able to follow the conflict. Obviously, it’s more
   enjoyable to watch the series in order, and the fandom fuels this
   ordering by placing a high emphasis on continuity, but sometimes, I
   think it would be good if more new episodes were a bit more timeless.
   For example, “Tanks for the memories” could have taken place in the
   second half of season 2, or anywhere in season 3 or 4, and yet it
   wasn’t until season 5 that its story was told. The result is that its
   story is complete on its own; it doesn’t rely on any earlier plot
   development in order to be enjoyed.

   However, this kind of standalone story isn’t common in season 6. “The
   Crystalling,” “On Your Marks,” “No Second Prances,” “Newbie Dash,”
   and “A Hearth’s Warming Tale” all rely on earlier development.
   Perhaps it would make more sense for “The Saddle Row Review” to fit
   realistically into the chronological scheme of things, but I don’t
   think it’s necessary. Every other episode has to happen when it does,
   and I find it refreshing for an episode expected later to be

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 19                      About Them Ponies                26 May 2016

   presented immediately. It keeps us on our hooves.

   Millstone(*2) writes:

    |
    |  I really liked this episode. Very interesting format and plenty
    |  of craziness.
    |
    |  Also the first true Mane 6 episode of the season. I guess
    |  Starlight's role as the 7th Mane isn't in full effect yet.
    |
    |  I hope we see Coco Pommel and Sassy Saddles interact someday.
    |

   I’m not quite sure if I’d agree with Millstone that Starlight is the
   Mane 7th.

   If we think about the Mane 6, they’re a very special, uniquely bonded
   group of friends. Their mutual friendship spontaneously occurred on
   the night of Nightmare Moon’s return, they all became bearers of the
   elements of harmony, they all received their cutie marks at the same
   time, and they’ve saved Equestria together many times since.
   Starlight, nor Sunset Shimmer, nor any other pony can truly become
   the Mane 7th as there is no way they could share those same
   experiences.

   I much prefer to think of Starlight as a character like Spike, or
   like Applebloom is to Applejack. She’s clearly associated with a
   character, Twilight, and through her she often participates in the
   same events that the Mane 6 participates in, but she’s not a member
   of that group. She’s just Twilight’s student, just as Twilight was
   once Celestia’s student. By that analogy, I suppose Starlight could
   one day join the Mane 6 after she finally completes her journey, but
   that’s still not the same. After all, Twilight also completed her
   journey and joined the Princesshood, but who really considers
   Twilight to be on par with Princess Celestia? She’s still the goddess
   of the freaking sun after all!

   I don’t think this is a bad thing though. Rather, I kind it’s much
   better as it gives the writers new stories to tell other than just
   Mane 6 centered ones. Now there can be Starlight + Mane 6 stories in
   the same way there were CMC + Mane6 stories. Who knows? Maybe
   Starlight will create an entirely new friend group for the series to
   explore.

   For our final comment, AidanofVT(*3) writes:

    |
    |  Ponies have been on a bit of a meh streak lately. Some people
    |  have started to wonder whether there have been too many
    |  alterations to the show's production and it's canon. Has MLP

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 19                      About Them Ponies                26 May 2016

    |  entered show-senility? This episode is a resounding answer to
    |  that question: no. The Saddle Row Review is excellent
    |  entertainment. It treats old characters with relative respect and
    |  tastefully adds to the canon. It's fan-interactions are tasteful
    |  and deliciously self-conscious. And notably, it hardly even
    |  pretends to have a moral.
    |
    |  I liked it. Possibly the first 5 / 5 episode since Inspiration
    |  Manifestation, or maybe Rarity Investigates.
    |

   I love this comment so much, but I totally disagree with half of
   what’s being said here. I do think MLP has been on a little bit of a
   meh streak (though I’d say season six is doing better than five),
   though I hardly would say it’s due to the inclusion of morals.

   If we think back to earlier episodes in the show, like season one and
   season two, every episode had a moral aka friendship lesson, but the
   route it took to reach that destination was usually non-stop packed
   with jokes and gags. An example of this would be “Party of One.” It
   definitely has its moral about always expecting the best from your
   friends (and not the worst), but that takes up only a few minutes of
   screen time. The rest is nothing but the Mane 6 acting super paranoid
   every time they see Pinkie while Pinkie dips more and more into a
   state of madness. It’s really funny yet terrifying, all the while
   developing its moral.

   I’d argue that newer episodes are more “meh” not because of their
   moral, but because all the morals are drop dead serious. More and
   more the morals of MLP are about serious topics, and while I love an
   episode that intrigues, I also love an episode that’s nothing but a
   crazy adventure from which a moral is derived later. In this week’s
   episode, there clearly is a moral as learned from the almost
   disastrous opening of Rarity’s boutique, but it’s packaged through a
   more fun context, making the episode both effective at delivering its
   message while being fun.

   That’s all I have for this week. This weekend may be very hectic for
   me, so while I’m still aiming for the next post to be Sunday, it
   might be a little late. Anyways, thanks for reading and brony on!












brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 19                      About Them Ponies                26 May 2016


                               References:
   1. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/05/season-6-episode-9-saddle-ro
      w-rec.html#comment-2688681312
   2. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/05/season-6-episode-9-saddle-ro
      w-rec.html#comment-2688355800
   3. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/05/season-6-episode-9-saddle-ro
      w-rec.html#comment-2688821095












































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

