ATP 11                      About Them Ponies              28 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
         Analysis from the fandom: Manchild / The Horseshoe King

   It’s no secret that there are a lot of people in the fandom who talk
   about ponies, and as someone interested in that, I have observed many
   reviewers and analysts. Jess, now known as Manchild and previously
   known as “Drowning in Horseshoes,” is one of them, but as he usually
   tends to deliver his content in a controversial manner, people often
   look over his insightful ideas. Anyways, he’s one of those reviewers
   who’s “left” the fandom, which is why I was delighted to see him post
   a new video the other day.

   [youTube embed](*1)

   Note: For whatever reason, youTube decided to associate clop videos
   with the above. I personal recommend stopping the video before
   youTube suggests something that can’t be unseen.

   For those not as familiar with Jess’s style of review, the above
   video is actually tame compared to his usual style. Many aspects of
   it are still the same, namely the juxtaposition of his emotional
   response alongside his more analytical reasoning. He also continues
   his usual blend of vlog style with graphics, a choice which allows
   not only for him to talk to the audience directly as an individual,
   but also to emphasize certain aspects of the show. Anyways that’s
   enough of me blabbing about his style; let’s take a closer look at
   his arguments.

   Jess’s points about the first two episode makes quite a lot of sense
   to me. Friendship is Magic really has always been about discovering
   friendship, not through formal lessons, but through the experience
   itself. Thus, it doesn’t really make sense for Twilight to formally
   teach Starlight friendship, but the episode doesn’t ignore that fact.
   At the end, Twilight admits that her plan wasn’t good, which
   partially makes up for the awkwardness of the earlier forced
   friendship. For me it ties the episode together into a satisfying
   conclusion, though it does seem more like an afterthought. I’d say
   the best friendship lessons (or story morals) are the ones that
   develop during the entire episode, and with Cadance’s baby taking up
   a significant amount of the air time, that didn’t happen.

   This isn’t fairly unusual though, as with the map episodes of S5, a
   similar trend occurred; these episodes seemed to be more about
   solving friendship problems or teaching others the magic of
   friendship rather than partaking in an experience and earnestly
   learning from something. There is one episode that did work with
   Twilight teaching another friendship, and that was “Amending fences.”
   In this episode, I think it’s important to note that both Twilight
   and Moondancer learned something from each other, and neither pony
   was trying to force the other’s friendship. This is of stark contrast

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 11                      About Them Ponies              28 April 2016

   to Starlight and Sunburst; the episode made clear that neither of
   them wanted to be in that situation, and what follows definitely felt
   more superficial than natural.

   As for Jess’s thoughts on “The Gift of the Maud Pie,”

    |
    |  Every single element of this episode was something borrowed from
    |  an older episode. It was Maud. It was Manehattan. It was Rarity
    |  opening a new shop. It was the party cannon, it was pinkie have a
    |  bizarre new family tradition with a silly name. It’s all elements
    |  and plotlines from earlier episodes that they just took and
    |  repurposed and mashed together into a weak stew.
    |

   I personally don’t have that much of a problem with the show reusing
   earlier concepts and themes. If we look at all the other episodes in
   S6 thus far, most of them have been full of the new, be it Twilight
   and Starlight’s mentorship, the CMC’s post-cutie mark revelations,
   and the recent dragon kingdom (in the new episode released after this
   video was put up). To some extent, there’s so much more ‘new’ than
   there is ‘old’ that I don’t even see how it’s possible to be worried
   about lack of innovation and originality. “The Gift of the Maud Pie”
   to contrast is full of those old concepts, which makes it easy to
   interpret the episode as a remix of earlier ones. Just like the
   musical kind, I’d say this remix does create something new from the
   old, and it too is enjoyable to watch.

   That doesn’t mean that Jess is wrong to say that some elements were
   accessory and need not be there. Maud Pie, as of season 4, is a fan
   favorite, and just like how the fandom screamed “Derpy!” and the show
   creators responded, the fans also screamed “Maud Pie!” and we get
   more of her. I agree, Maud Pie is a one note character, and it’d be
   better to see a different character return. I also agree that we
   don’t need to see Rarity looking for a new store front (though this
   too might be explained by the fandom’s want for the show to have
   continuity). But does it really make the episode awful? I personally
   find the best episodes to be balanced: they must introduce something
   new, but at the same time develop the old and build off of it.

   I’m always a fan of Jess’s thoughts; I hope he decides to make more
   videos, and hopefully ones that we don’t have to continuously pay for
   to enjoy.









brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 11                      About Them Ponies              28 April 2016


                               References:
   1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pX0Zk8rsebI

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

