ATP 18                      About Them Ponies                22 May 2016


                            About Them Ponies
           Individual Character Growth vs. Group Development:
                         “The Saddle Row Review”

   My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic has always been about friendship,
   particularly, the friendship of the Mane 6. Even so, the majority of
   the development takes place not at the group level of the Mane 6, but
   at the level of the individual. This is so common that we don’t even
   think about it anymore; Applejack episodes are Applejack episodes,
   Rarity episodes are Rarity episodes, and so forth. We can even sort
   all the episodes by who learns the lesson, which reveals just how
   dependent the MLP episode mold is on individual character growth (as
   a side note, all previous episodes in this season have followed this
   model, with Starlight Glimmer, Pinkie, Apple Bloom, Ember, Starlight
   again, Dash, and Starlight again being the characters developed).
   There’s a relatively short list of episodes which feature the Mane 6
   as the center of attention, and even rarer does the group actually
   grow as a whole. It’s common to see the Mane 6 unite against a common
   enemy, but in such circumstances there is no lesson to be learned,
   only a villain to defeat. Other episodes feature the Mane 6 in a more
   slice of life conflict, but even then there usually is only one
   character who learns.

   “The Saddle Row Review” breaks this pattern by having the Mane Six
   all work together towards a common goal: opening up Rarity’s new
   boutique. It might look like a Rarity episode on the surface, as this
   is her personal dream and not anypony else’s, but as she’s locked in
   the storefront, she ends up not participating in the story line.
   Rather, it’s a Twilgiht, Pinkie, Rainbow, Flutters, and Applejack
   episode (by the way, where is Spike?) and it is these five that learn
   the episode’s lesson: play to your personal strengths when solving
   other’s problems. This moral works much better in a group setting as
   it makes sense to have the tight knit Mane 6 help each other out with
   larger tasks that cannot be tackled individually. And with the
   characters set up to work together, they quickly come to the
   realization that the best way to work collaboratively is to allow
   each pony to do what she does best. Thus, the tasks are delegated,
   and all of a sudden each pony is working individually (albeit,
   towards a common goal).

   To me, this poses an interesting question. Each and every one of the
   Mane 6 minus Rarity learns to help Rarity through their own
   strengths, but each experienced this independently of the others.
   Does this mean that the episode’s lesson is a group one, or that of
   the individual? The episode does have a unifying message, but as each
   pony asks that question, “What would Rarity want?” on their own, the
   episode feels like it repeats itself five different times,
   compartmentalizing the lesson into five individual pieces.



brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 18                      About Them Ponies                22 May 2016

   To contrast, episodes like “The Best Night Ever” also feature six
   different subplots, but before each one is resolved, they all
   converge into the same story, and it is when they are all together
   that the Mane 6 realize the folly of their ways. It is this
   convergence of mini-plots into one final conflict and central idea
   that makes “The Best Night Ever” work so well, but in “The Saddle Row
   Review,” this moment of convergence is less defined, as it is spread
   across multiple scenes instead of building up to a big “Ah ha!”
   moment. It’s also interesting that the final conglomeration of their
   tasks is implied, not shown, and while we can clearly connect each
   piece to its pony, we didn’t see how the Mane 5 worked together to
   complete the puzzle.

   None of this really affects the overall quality of the episode as a
   whole, but it does affect how we think of the Mane 6 as a team, and
   what they collectively still have left to learn. Earlier episodes in
   the series, like “The Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000,” feature the
   six working as a single unit to conquer a challenge, and only
   together will they either sink or swim. Such episodes doesn’t feature
   any sort of group lesson, as Applejack “was right all along,” but it
   does present a unified Mane 6 experience. In this week’s episode, the
   challenge is split into parts and delegated out to individual
   members; success is dependent upon each of them individually learning
   how to channel their strengths. This most definitely features more
   growth than episodes like “The Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000,” but
   it also feels less unifying as the experience ultimately is broken
   down to the individual level (this fact is especially pronounced
   through the interview structure). In the end, I think the perfect
   Mane 6 episode would be a blend of these two ideas: the unification
   of the six (as opposed to delegation) to accomplish a task and an
   underlying lesson taught through this task to the Mane 6. In any
   case, I definitely hope to see more of the Mane 6 work together in
   facing new challenges, be it by task delegation or by combined
   effort.

   As always, I’ll be aiming to do comment/tumblr responses this
   Thursday. Let me know what ideas “The Saddle Row Review” brought up
   for you via text format!














brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

