ATP 12                      About Them Ponies                 1 May 2016


                            About Them Ponies
        “No Second Prances” and the fallibility of the unicorns.

   Starlight Glimmer, Twilight Sparkle, Trixie. These are the three
   characters featured in this week’s episode, and one thing I’m sure
   everypony has noticed is that they are all unicorns (or alicorns, but
   for simplicity just think of alicorns as exceptionally powerful
   unicorns). As the wielders of magic, unicorns have a very interesting
   role among ponykind; they are the upper class, as seen in Canterlot,
   they are the leaders of the world, as seen by the Princesses, and
   more often than not, they’re the ponies whose mistakes often cause
   the most harm.

   The track record is quite clear throughout all the seasons: It is
   Sunset Shimmer, a unicorn, who steals the element of harmony; it is
   King Sombra, a unicorn, who enslaves an entire empire; it is Princess
   Luna, an alicorn, who accidentally releases the Tantabus into the
   world. Very rarely do we see any pony other than a unicorn who
   actually poses a serious threat to a large portion of Equestria (the
   only counter example I can think of is Rainbow Dash destroying the
   weather factory). If the world is going to fall, it will be to
   nature, to a beast, or to a unicorn.

   This makes the meeting of Starlight, Trixie, and Twilight to be of
   significant importance. All three of these characters have the
   ability to threaten Equestria: Starlight most certainly because of
   her raw ability and past deeds, Trixie for her rage and desire for
   power, and Twilight in her best moments can take on pretty much
   anything. But among the three, Twilight is perhaps the most
   intriguing here because she has not experienced that fall from grace
   that both Trixie and Starlight have.

   To contrast, it’s hard to look at Twilight as anything but a success.
   The beloved pupil of Princess Celestia, the bearer of the element of
   magic, the Princess of Friendship. Sure, she’s made her mistakes, but
   she’s never completely overwhelmed with failure like the other gifted
   unicorns. In another universe, Twilight Sparkle may have been another
   Sunset Shimmer, but she avoided this fate because of one thing:
   friendship. As witnessed in the first three seasons, Twilight studied
   not only magic, but friendship, and Twilight learned and struggled
   and failed and grew through the support of her friends. Unicorn
   Twilight was fallible, but her fallible friends always there to put
   her back on her hooves.

   Jumping back to the episode, we see all three of these fallible
   characters together and it begs the questions, “Do we trust Trixie?”
   “Do we even trust Starlight?” Adding to the complexity, Twilight
   seems to trust Starlight yet not Trixie for similar reasons, which
   arises the third question, “Can we trust Twilight?” Throughout the
   episode and at its end, Twilight’s previous judgement of Trixie was

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 12                      About Them Ponies                 1 May 2016

   shown to be unfair, putting Twilight at greatest fault for the
   episode.

   Although Twilight has been in this position before, it takes on a new
   and deeper meaning here in season six because Twilight is no longer
   just a student; she’s a princess. Whereas before her mistakes might
   be overlooked as part of her learning or training towards princess
   hood, now that she’s a princess, it can only mean one thing: being a
   “princess” is not about being perfect. I use the word “princess” in
   quotes here because Twilight’s princess status more symbolically
   represents achievement and success. This broadens the episode’s theme
   to be quite relatable; Trixie’s and Starlight’s appearances show that
   previous fallings don’t prevent future triumph, and Twlight’s actions
   demonstrate that previous triumphs don’t prevent future falls. Also,
   less obvious, is the same classic theme that through friendship one
   can move beyond one’s past mistakes towards a better future.

   There will be many in the fandom who dislike the episode because
   Twilight doesn’t handle the situation perfectly, or at least as good
   as we’d hope that she’d handle it. Already I’ve seen people make
   comments like, “Twilight’s characterization was off,” but to this I
   ask, “Is Twilight Sparkle fallible, and if so, what mistakes might
   she make?” Part of what has made all the characters in this show so
   excellent is the fact that all of them do have flaws, and from these
   flaws we have realistic and profound conflicts. Plus, Princess
   Celestia’s character already embodies divine perfection (and many
   fans rather prefer Dislestia or other forms where this isn’t’ the
   case); would we really want Twilight to be another perfect character
   as well? In any case, Twilight’s suspicion at Starlight and Trixie’s
   friendship is reasonable, as both of them have kicked Twilight’s
   flank before. For this reason alone, all her actions can pretty much
   be justified as self-preservation, and Twilight doesn’t strike me as
   a pony who would leave such a possibility up to chance.

   Anyways, I’m sure there will be quite an array of talk in the fandom
   about this episode, and I will be interested in reading comments
   below the break, or other sites. See you for comment responses on
   Thursday.














brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

