ATP 10                      About Them Ponies              24 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
  The Elements of Pony: Notable characteristics of “good” MLP episodes

   We’ve all been there at some point. A new episode of our favorite
   cartoon horse program comes out, and while when watching it,
   something amazing happens. You find yourself laughing too loudly at
   some joke, or maybe even sobbing at a heart wrenching moment, but one
   thing’s definitely clear: that last episode sure was something! After
   a while (to make sure everypony has had a chance to watch it), you
   contact your friend and ask them that burning question: What did you
   think of last week’s episode? You can barely contain your enthusiasm,
   and when you’re just about to burst, that friend finally utters those
   sacred words, “Meh. It was okay at best.”

   And you try not to scream “WHAT? THAT WAS THE BEST, BELOVED BY
   CELESTIA, M A LARSON APPROVED, ALMOST AS GOOD AS LIVING IN PONYVILLE,
   EPISODE EVER!

   If there’s anything we can say with absolute certainty about the
   fandom, it’s that we have many diverse opinions and views about what
   we think of Friendship is Magic. No two fans like the same set of
   episodes, and even among people who like a particular episode, they
   often enjoy it for different reasons. This leads to an interesting
   dilemma when trying to figure out exactly what makes an MLP episode
   good; an episode is not good because you like, nor is it good because
   the majority of the fandom likes it.

   Rather, an episode is only good if it satisfies the definition of
   what a good episode is. That may sound quite vague, but I’m afraid
   terms like good and bad tend to be circularly defined that way. For
   instance, dictionary.com partially defines good to be “excellent” and
   it then defines excellent to be “remarkably good.” Definitions like
   this provide no clarity, so the only way to escape the recursive
   definitions is to put down a hard line as to what “good” episodes
   are. After +5 seasons of the show, I think it’s possible to make a
   list of characteristics that do a much better job at discerning what
   “good” episodes are. Without further ado, I present to you such a
   list (in progress)

   Good MLP Episodes…

     - make you laugh (or cry)
     - explore conflicts that are relatable to any age
     - feature a noteworthy ‘friendship lesson’ or a moral
     - extensively develop its central characters
     - feature quality animation, voice-acting, and music
     - embellish or extend the magical lore associated with Equestria
     - build off of ideas established in earlier episodes (continuity)
     - celebrate values usually classified as feminine
     - are upbeat, positive, and optimistic.

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 10                      About Them Ponies              24 April 2016

   I’m sure that I’ve missed a few items on this list, and some of them
   are arguably similar, but as I said, this is a work in progress. I’ve
   chosen the items above because they span many different aspects of
   the show, and all of them can easily be selling points in their own
   right.

   I’d say the two most obvious elements in the above list are “Makes
   you laugh/cry” and “feature quality animation, voice acting, and
   music.” After all, most television shows (and other narrative forms
   like movies, novels, and plays) are designed to appeal to emotions,
   so it should be to no pony’s surprise that when an episode is good,
   the audience has an emotional response or connection to it. Quality
   animation, music, and voice acting are also standard among
   television; in this day and age with every kind of media soliciting
   your attention, maintaining a high standard is a must. That’s not to
   say these aspects don’t stand out (many of Daniel Ingram’s songs are
   my all-time favorites), it’s just that every show should strive for
   these standards, not just MLP.

   Some other characteristics that MLP has fall into the category of
   world building. I know many viewers hold continuity as the single
   most important characteristic of television shows, and let’s be
   honest, if new episodes undermine the premises of earlier episodes,
   the show essentially destroys its origins. But more importantly than
   staying consistent episode to episode, every episode should continue
   to add to the universe that is the show. Characters need to be
   developed, the world must be explored, and the forces of change must
   always continue to act. In particular, the world of Equestia is
   chock-full of myth and lore: individual ponies control the sun, moon,
   and weather, dangerous creatures and antagonists roam the land, and
   many characters have access to magic or other insanely cool
   abilities. Good episodes use and create many aspects of its universe,
   and MLP in particular often feels totally epic when it takes
   advantage of its universe.

   Finally, there’s a few more elements of pony that some fans might
   think are unnecessary, but which I would say are the most defining of
   all. MLP has its friendship lessons, its relatability, its
   appreciation of feminine values, and its optimism. These are the
   things that make MLP unique, as no other television dare to do all of
   the above. The friendship lessons and morals tend to hold the entire
   show together as one continuous motif, and as part of this, the
   writers have to make every moral as relatable as possible,
   maintaining interest among all age groups. Smuggled alongside those
   morals is an appreciation for all things traditionally feminine, be
   it cupcakes or laughter or rainbows or ponies. Above all else, is an
   undeniable optimism throughout the show; that friendship really is
   magic and through it, all conflicts can be worked out. It might be
   weird to see these characteristics in other shows, but in MLP,
   they’re all right at home.


brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 10                      About Them Ponies              24 April 2016

   There’s a lot to be said about each and every one of the elements
   mentioned here, but as each deserves its own attention, I won’t be
   elaborating any more on them for now. As I mentioned earlier, it
   might not be a complete list, but I think it’s a good basis for
   actually taking a closer look at what MLP as a whole is. Let me know
   what elements you think define MLP down in the comments; my set of
   elements probably isn’t the same set as yours. As always, I’ll be
   doing posting comment responses on Thursday (that is, if anyone
   actually writes comments by then). Catch you all later.











































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

