ATP 16                      About Them Ponies                15 May 2016


                            About Them Ponies
             “A Hearth’s Warming Tale” and the music of MLP

   Ah yes. As soon as this week’s episode began with the singing of
   ponies, I knew it was going to be another musical episode. Thanks to
   the tireless efforts of song writer Daniel Ingram, My Little Pony:
   Friendship is Magic has been blessed (or cursed) with songs ever
   since “Winter Wrap Up” in season one. Since then, countless original
   tracks have slowly been slipping their way into episodes, and the
   Pinkie Pie jingles of old have disappeared, but it wasn’t until
   Twilight’s ascension in season three that there was a musical proper.
   And when I say “musical” here, I don’t mean that the episode had a
   particular emphasis about music, I mean “musical” as in the type of
   play where characters break out into song at the drop of a hat. With
   the addition of “Magical Mystery Cure,” “Pinkie Pride,” and
   “Crusaders of the Lost Mark,” every season besides the first two has
   its own musical where not only do we get an original song, but two,
   three, four plus songs in a single episode! “A Hearth’s Warming Tale”
   clearly is the latest addition to the list, but for me this week’s
   episode brings up a lot of questions about the role of music in My
   Little Pony.

   I think the best way to begin the discussion is by talking about how
   MLP originally worked their way into the show and how they function
   as a whole. According to Daniel Ingram(*1), the show wasn’t
   originally going to have any music aside from Pinkie jingles until
   Daniel Ingram demonstrated just what was possible with “Winter Wrap
   Up.” That song paved the way for all other songs in the series, so
   what about it made it such a success? Functionally, “Winter Wrap Up”
   served as the exposition for the episode, as the lyrics describe all
   the various tasks each team does to prepare for winter. It also
   foreshadows the conflict of the episode, as Twilight sings about how
   she doesn’t know which team to join. But besides setting up the
   episode, the song also reflects the emotions that the characters are
   feeling. Everypony is excited to see the beginning of spring, and the
   music is upbeat and catchy to reflect this. When Twilight comes in at
   the end, the mood of the song shifts to the uncertainty that Twilight
   feels. Once again it captures the emotion, and it really lets us feel
   both the anxiety of Twilight and the excitement of the spring to
   come.

   Every song in MLP that speaks to me follows this format. The songs
   tend to be at the beginnings of the episode, and they complete the
   exposition by matching the current emotional state of its characters
   and embellishing it. This means that every song is tied to an
   emotion, and every emotion can be tied to a song. Looking at examples
   from across seasons: “The Smile Song” embellishes the joy that Pinkie
   feels upon seeing her friends smile, “This Day Aria” is both the
   shout of victory of Queen Chrysalis and the cries of despair from
   Princess Cadance, “Babs Seed” reflects the irony of having a new

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 16                      About Them Ponies                15 May 2016

   friend suddenly turn bully, “Hearts as Strong as Horses” embodies the
   inspiration of the CMC towards their goals, and “You’ll Play Your
   Part” captures the longing of Twilight to fulfill her potential.

   I find that the less meaningful songs in MLP tend to be towards the
   end of the episodes. Songs like “Let the Rainbow Remind You,” “The
   Magic Inside”, and “Friends are Always There for you” tend to be less
   memorable, and I think it’s because of their tendency to replace the
   conclusion. In order for an episode to feel complete for me, there
   must be a satisfying conclusion, and the writing must lead to it.
   However, with the emotional impact of songs being quite significant,
   putting a song at the end feels emotionally conclusive, even if the
   writing isn’t! Thus, the writers fail to conclude the episode
   properly in the presence of the song, and the song no longer
   embellishes that conclusive emotion.

   Coming back to “A Hearth’s Warming Tale,” I think my sole criticism
   of the episode is that its song’s don’t have that emotional sway that
   usually accompanies the greatest works of Daniel Ingram’s. The
   episode is full of many songs, yet I can still remember six distinct
   numbers: the opening singing act, Starlight’s villain song, Apple
   ghost’s song, Pinkie ghost’s song, Luna ghost’s song, and the finale.
   This is a good sign, as it means none of them were forgettable, but
   how many were good songs, and how many of them really captured a
   powerful emotion? For me, the best song of the episode was
   Starlight’s, as it really captured the intensity of her character’s
   distaste for the holiday, and I even liked the opening act as it
   captured the serenity and joy of the holiday. But each of the ghost’s
   songs could easily have been taken out, and the episode would have
   functioned just as fine; they did capture some emotion, but it wasn’t
   an emotion needed to fuel the plot. It definitely moved us from point
   A to B to C, but none of them stuck out as essential. Other MLP
   musicals, like “Pinkie Pride” only have a song for the moments of
   impact; removing anyone of them would take away from the episode.
   However, I don’t think this is true for “A Hearth’s Warming Tale,” as
   its later songs are more focused on moving the plot along rather than
   capturing the moment.

   That said, the moments of impact are entirely debatable, and while I
   think the episode did not have six such moments (and thus did not
   need six songs), it doesn’t really matter at the end of the day
   whether there’s a few extra songs or not. In any case, all six of the
   songs blended nicely into the episode, and none stuck out as awkward
   or forced. I can easily see why many will favorite this episode,
   though for me it remains just another good MLP episode.

   If anypony actually reads this thing, consider dropping a comment
   down below! I’ll be doing responses as always on Thursday.




brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 16                      About Them Ponies                15 May 2016


                               References:
   1. http://www.everybodys.us/daniel-ingram-writing-songs-for-ponies/

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

