ATP 24                      About Them Ponies               12 June 2016


                            About Them Ponies
           The return of the cutie map in “Spice Up Your Life”

   When the season five premier of My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic
   aired, it brought FiM into a new era, one not of friendship lessons,
   elements of harmony, or similar friendship talismans, but of cutie
   maps and friendship missions. While the transition from the former to
   the latter has been gradual due to the transitory nature of Season 4,
   this does not change the fact that the show made a significant
   change, from episodes focused on internal learning to episodes
   devoted to external teaching. Season 5’s presentation of the Cutie
   map in the season’s premier, finale, and intermediary episodes
   definitely sent a loud signal that MLP would now focus on spreading
   the gospel of friendship.

   Even though the cutie map hasn’t taken over the show as promised (the
   majority of episodes after season 4 are still focused primarily on
   Mane 6 growth), I would say based off the map episodes in season five
   that the concept is problematic at best. While Princess Celestia’s
   exposition bombs were definitely overused, the map is arguable worse
   as now we know longer gain any exposition at all. Rather, the mane 6
   are required to go into map missions blindly and without a defined
   purpose; this leads to the episode having to spend a lot of time
   answering the question: “Why are we even here?” It’s awkward, it’s
   not relatable, and it doesn’t add anything to the show.

   Thus, seeing return of the cutie map here in season 6 was something I
   dreaded, and up until this episode, I was hoping that the writers
   would just drop the concept all together.  Clearly, that’s not the
   case, but as the writers can only get better at their craft,
   hopefully the map episodes will follow suit.

   “Spice up Your Life” as it turns out, immediately starts on a better
   hoof by having Pinkie Pie acknowledge that “you don’t find a
   friendship problem, it finds you.” This allows for the episode to
   jump right into the thick of things, taking only 2 minutes and 28
   seconds before jumping into the action as opposed to the 9 minutes of
   exposition in “The Lost Treasure of Griffonstone” and the 9 minutes
   45 seconds in “Rarity takes Manehattan.” With this time spent no
   longer wandering about aimlessly, the episode feels more purposeful,
   even if it still takes a while before all exposition is complete and
   the conflict develops.

   However, I’d say the real strength of the episode is not just how
   quickly the action starts, but rather how engaged both Rarity and
   Pinkie Pie become in the conflict. In previous map episodes, each
   Mane 6 pair went to their location to assist and to help out but no
   pair became invested to the point where they were actually caught up
   in the conflict. Instead, they retained that aloof position of a
   traveler from far away, the position of someone who remains

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 24                      About Them Ponies               12 June 2016

   unaffected by how the events will ultimately unfold. If Rainbow Dash
   and Pinkie failed in Griffonstone, they could have easily come back;
   the same goes for Rarity and AJ’s mission as well as Fluttershy and
   Twilght’s.

   This is not the case in “Spice up your life.” When Pinkie and Rarity
   finally arrive at the Tasty Treat, they both enjoy the food, and thus
   are honestly committed to getting the restaurant that three-hoof
   rating. As both act on this goal, they go about in different ways,
   each with the support of a different restaurant owner, thus inciting
   even more drama. They’re no longer outside of the conflict, they’ve
   been pulled in, and with Rarity’s reputation soon on the line, it’s
   no longer a conflict that they can just walk away from. The result of
   this narrative is that Rarity and Pinkie Pie further develop as
   characters right alongside the new characters introduced. It’s not
   just an episode purely devoted to the new ponies; it’s an episode
   about them, and Rarity and Pinkie. This makes the episode a true
   win-win.

   All of this demonstrates the best of what map episodes have to offer;
   they get our beloved protagonists out of Ponyville and into
   Equestria, they introduce us to new places and the ponies there, but
   most importantly, they allow for the Mane 6 to be tested in new ways
   and to continue their growth as dynamic characters. As episodes
   become more and more oriented around ponies besides the Mane 6, I
   believe that the introduction of new places and ponies will be
   necessary, with or without a map. However, if the map can pull just
   the right strings to allow for our protagonists to keep growing and
   learning, the cutie map will become a fantastic replacement for the
   friendship lessons, and we can all stop worrying about their glowing
   butt tattoos.

   And with that episode aired, we’re now once again plunged into
   hiatus. I’m planning on keeping this blog active throughout, so make
   sure to keep sending in your responses (you know, all zero of you).
   Catch some more responses from the fandom this upcoming Thursday!
















brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

