ATP 22                      About Them Ponies                5 June 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                “Flutter Brutter” and the American dream

   This most definitely is my favorite episode of the season thus far.
   From the new development of Fluttershy’s family, to interactions
   between Zephyr Breeze and the majority of the Mane 6, to small things
   like seeing Cloudsdale, Ponyville, and its forest again, there is so
   much here to unpack, to discuss, and to appreciate. Any one of these
   facets could warrant a discussion of its own, but for the moment I
   want to unpack a big idea that’s central to this episode, yet not
   quite its focus. Rather, it’s a premise of the episode as well as
   something from life itself: the American dream.

   For those of you not familiar with the American dream, it’s
   remarkably simple yet powerful idea: anyone can become successful and
   wealthy through their hard work alone. It is an idea which appears
   often in literature; I especially remember having to write an essay
   on the subject based off a reading of “Of Mice and Men.” That
   novella, along with many other works, point out that the American
   Dream is just that, a dream, and that it’s not obtainable for various
   reasons. From story to story, these reasons always change form, but
   they are ever present. It would seem that life itself, via political,
   sociological, and economic reasons, is always finding a new way us to
   tell us that the American dream is dead.

   The episode, however, gives us the exact opposite message. Looking at
   the song lyrics alone, “you’ve got to give it your best so you can
   pass the test; give it everything you’ve got; and we know you can win
   you just have to begin; have to give it your very best shot,” it’s
   clear that to “give it your best” is equivalent to working hard, and
   that passing “the test” is achieving that dream of wealth and
   prosperity. Furthermore, the song fails to acknowledge that one might
   work hard yet still fail, as depicted in the lyrics “you can win you
   just have to begin” and especially “you can’t go wrong.” This, too,
   is the pitfall of the American dream as hard work alone isn’t enough
   to guarantee success. There will always be some luck involved; for
   instance, how can Zephyr become a mane stylist if there isn’t already
   a mane stylist position available?

   The episode ignores these points, not because the show writers
   intentionally wanted to, but rather because they wanted to focus on
   another pitfall, one typically associated with millennials. Most of
   you probably have heard a story or two about a person in their
   twenties living in their parent’s basement playing video games all
   day. Whether or not you are similar to such a stereotype doesn’t
   matter a whole lot; the fact is millennials are often stereotyped as
   lazy or pretentious. Zephyr Breeze not only exemplifies both of these
   characteristics, but he’s also the right age to be a millennial as
   he’s a young adult (as a side note, the mane 6 are older, as
   witnessed by Fluttershy’s seniority as a sibling).

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 22                      About Them Ponies                5 June 2016

   This easily allow us to interpret the episode as a commentary against
   the arrogance and indolence often associated with millennials.
   However, it not an attack against the millennial generation in it of
   itself, as the criticism of Zephyr is not against him, but his
   behavior. Zephyr himself does receive support, but it’s only when he
   isn’t obnoxious, and it’s always directed towards getting him up and
   working. Overall, this frames the episode as a rally of sorts
   (perhaps directed at millennials, perhaps not), a call to work hard
   and to actually make your dream a reality.

   This theme of course, is the same mantra as the American dream
   itself, even though the episode’s intent was definitely focused on
   the downfall of laziness (or being too afraid try, depending on your
   interpretation).  Thus the question arises, “how much do you trust
   the lesson of this episode?” On one hand, the lesson is entirely
   true, valid, and inspiring; the only way to achieve a dream is to go
   out there and put forth the work needed to achieve it.  On the other
   hand, some people’s dreams will never be obtainable not because of
   their lack of effort, but due to socio-economic factors unfairly
   standing in their way. I will not be surprised if someone in the
   fandom has a negative reaction to this episode because their own
   reality is quite different from the presented reality in the episode.

   The way I resolve this conflict is by remembering that Equestria is
   not the real world. Rather, Equestria is a utopia; a land ruled over
   by a loving matriarch with goddess-like powers, a place where no pony
   lives a life dominated by poverty or loneliness, a kingdom where
   friendship really does have the power to destroy evil in the blaze of
   a rainbow. Such a place isn’t meant to point out the flaws of our
   world; it is meant to be optimistic, to give us hope and to inspire
   us to make our own Earth more like Equestria. In such a place, the
   American dream is a reality, and it’s a beauty to behold.

   Drop a comment, ask a question, or write me a reblog. I’ll be
   answering them on Thursday, so see you then!

   +1 for Rainbow Dash actually striking Zephyr with lightning

   +1 for Fluttershy dropping the first swear bombs

   P.S. It’s really cool to watch an episode like this during my first
   week of living on my own.










brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

