ATP 25                      About Them Ponies               16 June 2016


                            About Them Ponies
             Responses from everywhere! “Spice up your life”

   It’s final comment response time for the moment. I’m a little sad
   that there won’t be any episode responses for a while, but there’s
   always more content to come!

   As recommended by Autumns Favorite, I will be responding to
   Lopoddity(*1) on Deviant Art, and she writes:

    |
    |  woo boy really did not care for the mlp "Spice Up Your Life"
    |  episode, complaining ahead. i mean the episode started by
    |  bringing back the questionable plot device of the map. the map
    |  could have sent Pinkie and Rares anywhere in the world, instead
    |  it sends them to Canterlot. waaay too much exposition through
    |  dialogue in the first ten minutes ...was i the only one made
    |  uncomfortable by Rarity turning her nose up at the "unrefined"
    |  ethnic Tasty Treat food. Like Zecora, Coriander and Saffron have
    |  this creepy tokenism to them. There was something off about their
    |  accents too, they felt like White voice actors doing a bad south
    |  asian imitation, god i hope not. they were also fell flat as hell
    |  as characters, at least their designs were nice. Rarity was out
    |  of character, not sure why the most artistic pony of the mane six
    |  would be pushing so hard to sell out and cater to the whims of
    |  elite critics. Also Pinkie Pie was obnoxious? wtf even was
    |  Zesty's design, it looked way too human and uncanny with her
    |  weird botox face. also the ep had this implied anti-critic
    |  moral?? what the hell. all in all, i rarely complain about
    |  episodes but this one was awful, geez. i mean if you enjoyed it,
    |  good for you, but i truly, truly didn't care for it.
    |

   Lopoddity makes many short remarks about many different facets of the
   episode, but the one which sticks out to me is what she says about
   tokenism in regards to Coriander and Saffron. Truth be told, I did
   have to look up the term tokenism; while it’s a fascinating
   interpretation of the characters, I hardly think their inclusion in
   this episode is primarily for the sake of including different
   ethnicities within the show.

   In a setting like Canterlot, everything is intended to be catered to
   the most elite of the upper class, thus anything different will be
   treated as inferior, regardless of what it is. This gives the writers
   a choice as to what kind of restaurant it will be, and its reception
   will not change. However, if they chose a hayburger joint, or another
   equivalent to fast food, this clash of class would be real, and the
   reason for the Tasty Treat being unrated justified. The only way to
   provide a realistic rival to high class dining is to use dining from
   another culture; that way the restaurant cannot be classified as

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 25                      About Them Ponies               16 June 2016

   lower in class, only as “foreign.” It makes the conflict about
   accepting equally valid cultures, instead of accepting lower class
   traditions as equivalent (which would be a very dire argument. No one
   wants to argue that McDonalds is as good as 5 star dining).

   Thus, it makes sense to include a foreign culture (relative to
   Canterlot) for this episode, and the question becomes whether it
   handles racial differences well. I, for one, didn’t find anything
   which suggested that either race was better or worse; all the
   Caterlot ponies appeared to judge the restaurant by its rating and
   not the owner’s origins. This makes it easy for one to forget the
   topic of race altogether while watching this episode. The only
   problem that might emerge is if Saffron and Coriander’s tropes
   reflect negative sterotypes about foreigners or other races. As I’m
   neither of those, it makes no sense for somepony like me to judge the
   negative effects of such tropes; we’ll have to ask someone of the
   race from which the characters were inspired.

   As for the other points that Lopoddity makes – there are many reasons
   why Rarity might encourage conformity; they only have a day to
   prepare, Rarity might know that the Canterlot cuisine ratings are
   rigged, Rarity also might not have a clue what she’s doing as she’s
   not a chef herself. The writers need not invent every reason for why
   ponies act the way they do, as Dave Polsky likes to point out, plus
   the fandom likes having a little room for head canons and such.

   Pinkie Pie has been obnoxious many times before (like Friendship is
   Magic), newly introduced characters always lack development (because
   they’re not developed yet, duh), there’s nothing wrong with
   questioning the authority of critics, the episode didn’t take forever
   to get into the action (as I argued last week), and the map itself
   was the best we’ve seen yet (as also argued by me last week). Quick
   responses, I know, but the initial arguments were also quick.

   Over on EQD, ZeroGee(*2) writes:

    |
    |  Wow...just....wow....this one feels forced.
    |
    |  But one thing I will point out is the way the critic was acting.
    |  Like every pony could not make up their own minds and that EVERY
    |  restaurant was the exact same, decor, style, the food. The exact
    |  same. And one place stood out but got no visits because it wasn't
    |  "hoofed"
    |
    |  Now there is nothing wrong with critic reviews but the way it was
    |  prorate that only ONE critic who had a certain taste and idea for
    |  things FORCED it onto others!
    |
    |  While Pinkie was saying "dont change" Rarity was saying "To be
    |  like all the rest" so literary taking away their individuality

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 25                      About Them Ponies               16 June 2016

    |  and only then would they get "hoofed" by the critic.
    |
    |  But then Rarity realised, even after saying the food is
    |  delicious, she still wanted it to be the same. Then when everyone
    |  came in and actually enjoyed being there the critic lost it
    |  effectually saying "I TELL YOU WHAT TO THINK!!"
    |
    |  No, you dont, a critic has an option on things they can not tell
    |  you what you can and can not do based on their own standards.
    |
    |  At the end when two owners said they where going to do it their
    |  way the critic just went off in a huff.
    |
    |  This episode felt like it was trying to give a message of "Do not
    |  join the heard just because someone says so to make up your own
    |  mind"
    |

   As ZeroGee states, Zesty Gourmand definitely is quite the bitter
   character, but I don’t think she’s completely unjustified. Her point
   about “subtle tastes” makes sense; it can be easy to make one type of
   food with an obvious taste. In order to have a successful barbeque,
   all one really needs is a grill, the meat, and some BBQ sauce;
   there’s nothing difficult to it even if the BBQ flavor is distinctive
   and enjoyable. It’s also important to think about what kind of
   background Zesty has. As an elderly pony, she’s probably spent her
   entire life closely examining food; to dismiss all that experience in
   the blink of an eye is unthinkable, yet that’s exactly what Pinkie
   and Rarity ask of her. It’s a critic’s job to apply that experience
   to evaluate restaurants regardless of whether we agree or not.
   Forcing this opinion on to others is definitely a mistake, but then
   the show was definitely up-playing critical disdain to make its point
   obvious.

   However, I’m kind of curious why the writes chose to make this point;
   I think the lesson would come obvious to the fandom. I’ve read
   numerous rants about people’s annoyance (to put it lightly) for the
   analysis community, and this annoyance is very much the same as both
   are objection to another’s more highly rated opinion. While the
   fandom may object more or less extremely, it’s definitely not a new
   concept, and it would be much more interesting to see the fandom
   presented with the opposite moral.

   Finally, over on the MLP forums, Zel(*3) writes:

    |
    |  I don't see the problem with Rarity portrayal in this episode. Of
    |  course she is an artist and know the concept of creativity and
    |  applies this concept in her work... But she's also a businessmare
    |  (?) and she was shown to follow trends in order to create dress
    |  (for example in Secret of my excess Rarity decided to make capes

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 25                      About Them Ponies               16 June 2016

    |  because of that she was thinking would have been trendy the next
    |  season) this is this side of her that was shown in the first part
    |  of this episode.
    |
    |  Her idea was not bad in fact, it was pretty much natural for her
    |  to think this way. She knows that the food world of Canterlot is
    |  rule by Zest and that everypony listen to her advices... in fact
    |  we saw that ponies don't want to go the the restaurant because
    |  the critic didn't approve this restaurant. So it was natural for
    |  her to think that the best course of action was to make the
    |  restaurant be approved by Zest thus attracting clients. She was
    |  the only Mane 6 who could have been thinking like that, because
    |  she know that to success in what you do you must to be original
    |  but also to be appealing... and in this story it meant to be
    |  appealing to Zest...
    |

   I don’t have too much to respond to from Zel’s comment, but I think
   it’s an incredibly valuable one that addresses the whole
   out-of-character point many notoriously bring up from episode to
   episode.

   I say notorious, because almost every time some character acts
   differently than previously seen, there’s a whole outcry of people
   who are quick to say something similar to “Xpony was SO out of
   character, it kills me.” In real life, people also tend to act in
   unexpected ways from time to time, yet no one gossips about another
   person saying “You know Bob was really out of character today.” Real
   people are too complex to understand fully all the time, so we should
   also expect our fellow ponies to confuse us every once and a while,
   just like real people do.

   When I watched the episode, I wanted to know what Rarity’s full plan
   was; she definitely enjoyed the Tasty Treat’s food, so she probably
   didn’t want to change the restaurant completely. However, her mad
   redecorating earned just the opposite impression. While the two might
   seem to contradict each other, I personally had a fun time coming up
   with potential reason for her actions. Perhaps the whole gettup was
   intended just to impress Zesty; there’s nothing preventing the owners
   from continuing to serve their original food alongside the fancy. I
   think it’s also important to point out that Rarity was with Coriander
   and not Saffron. Coriander was definitely more interested in keeping
   the place open than in keeping the aesthetic. Rarity easily could
   have interpreted this as the number one priority, making conformity
   the way to go.

   Overall, I agree there’s definitely reasons for why Rarity’s actions
   make sense; it’s all a matter of thinking about the larger context
   that just assuming the situation is akin to Rarity and her fashion
   boutiques.


brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

ATP 25                      About Them Ponies               16 June 2016


                               References:
   1. http://lopoddity.deviantart.com/status/3677742
   2. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/06/season-6-episode-12-spice-up
      -your-life.html#comment-2733082634
   3. https://mlpforums.com/topic/153062-s06e12-spice-up-your-life/page-
      4#entry4557675













































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 5]

