ATP 26                      About Them Ponies               19 June 2016


                            About Them Ponies
             MLP Fandom Analysis and its Challenges (Part 1)

   As the latest strand of MLP episodes has ended, the hiatus is now
   officially upon us, or if you like to be positive, the time to
   actually process the episodes has begun. In the words of Golden
   Fox(*1), “the only bronies who love the hiatuses are the reviewers
   and analysts … it gives [them] time to work on [their] reviews and
   present them to the best quality as possible.” However, even if you
   don’t consider yourself an analyst or reviewer, the hiatus gives
   everypony the time to actually think about the episodes, and to
   finally watch them with the understanding that what’s happened has
   happened. If the season’s bad, it’s bad; if it’s good, it’s good. In
   the midst of this reflection it is also beneficial to reflect on this
   act of reflection itself; in other words, I’m taking a critical eye
   to the state of fandom analysis this week.

   The first (and probably most confusing) contention of the whole issue
   is that what we traditionally refer to as MLP analysis isn’t really
   analysis. According to Merriam Webster, analysis is defined as “a
   careful study of something to learn about its parts, what they do,
   and how they are related to each other.” From this definition, it is
   clear than analysis involves breaking a larger work into components,
   but less obvious is what the phrase “how they are related to each
   other” refers to. This question is more easily answered if we
   restrain ourselves to literary analysis, and in literary analysis it
   is through argumentation that the various components are related. As
   MLP:FiM is a television show, it would be the subject of literary
   analysis, as opposed to mathematical, harmonic, chemical, or other
   random analyses.

   Thus most “analysis” within the fandom that attempts to critique the
   show falls into this categorization, and in order for it to truly be
   an analysis, it needs to have a literary argument. Arguments
   themselves need to have three different parts: claims, evidence, and
   warrant (if this isn’t sounding familiar, it’s probably best for you
   to do a little research on your own; I recommend searching the phrase
   ‘Toulmin argument’). However, due to the rigorous nature of
   constructing a work which primarily contains these attributes
   (Claims, evidence, warrant), most members of the analysis community
   chose not to pursue this. Rather, they are more lenient. What they
   end up creating isn’t pure analysis, which is why many of them
   describe themselves as “reviewers” rather than “analysts.”

   When the fandom refers to the analysis community, they’re not
   referring to people who do pure analysis, but rather the larger set
   of all bronies who take the time to engage with the show at a more
   analytical level;  this could be anything from writing essays about
   the show to the standard youTube episode reviews. It is even possible
   to argue that everypony that ever wrote a comment about MLP is a part

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 26                      About Them Ponies               19 June 2016

   of that community, though at that point, the definition becomes
   unhelpful. It is for this reason that I’ll be drawing the line at a
   more selective point; to be a part of the analysis community one must
   also have a coherent and sizable body of work dedicated to the
   subject. This definition cuts out the many who write comments on the
   MLP forms, EQD, or youTube, but as comment pages are typically
   unsearchable, it’s next to impossible to distinguish a person who
   writes frequently versus a person who wrote a single post. In any
   case, the analysis community is a lot larger than those featured in
   the typical “Analysis Community” fan portrait.

   [Img - The Analysis Community](*2)

   Putting so many in such a large categorization begs the question,
   “What is it that the analysis community does?” or “What do they try
   to do?” With other groups like the musicians, artists, and writers,
   their goals are obvious: to create pony music, to create pony art, to
   create pony fanfiction. But as explained earlier, the analysis
   community generally doesn’t strictly make analysis, nor do they
   strictly make something else like reviews (yes, most do review, but
   even reviewers like Silver Quill make extra content like his pony
   appreciation videos). Rather, the analysis community serves as the
   figure head of all discourse about My Little Pony: Friendship is
   Magic; if there is anything to be said about the show or the fandom,
   it’s up to this community to lead the discussion. Using this goal as
   a baseline, we can begin to examine the fandom’s analysis community
   and see how well they accomplish this task.

   (Continued in Part 2; coming this Thursday or earlier)(*3)























brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 26                      About Them Ponies               19 June 2016


                               References:
   1.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMlNSqO4DVU&t=105
   2. https://i.ytimg.com/vi/olIGeQ4YqDw/maxresdefault.jpg
   3. http://brambleshadow4.github.io/ATP/ATP27.txt















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

