ATP 29                      About Them Ponies               30 June 2016


                            About Them Ponies
    Analysis: The Two Themes of “My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic”

   TV shows don’t always have themes. In a world where everything is
   vying for an audience, most creators will try to captivate interest
   by producing something as entertaining as possible. For some people,
   the best type of entertainment might be comedy; for others, it might
   be romance, drama, or action. While all of these aspects can make a
   show very entertaining, the pursuit of them alone prevents most shows
   from taking on the elements that great literature has: themes and
   deeper meaning. Thus, it is not expected for shows to have such
   meaning, especially ones with a name as ridiculous as “My Little
   Pony: Friendship is Magic (MLP:FiM).” However, in an extraordinary
   twist of fate, the above example does have this meaning. Like all
   good narrative works, the episodes of MLP:FiM have individual themes,
   and in combination with each other, the first three seasons of the
   show(*1) strongly suggest two themes.

   The first theme is obvious as it’s in the name of the show:
   FRIENDSHIP IS MAGIC! However, despite its apparentness within the
   title, this theme is deeply in grained in nearly every episode. For
   starters, the premise of the show at large is that protagonist
   Twilight Sparkle needs to up her friendship skills, so she’s out in
   the field studying friendship and writing reports to her mentor. With
   this setup, the show orients itself in a way that puts this theme at
   the center piece, and as every episode follows up with its
   “friendship lesson,” the theme is always maintained and elaborated.

   To anyone who watches the show, this is very clear, and it’s so
   straightforward that it calls to question whether the whole
   ‘Friendship is Magic’ thing is deep enough to be classified as a
   theme.  After all, most works with profound themes usually don’t
   expose them at a surface level. As MLP:FiM is aimed for kids, its
   themes have to be more simple so that anyone watching can follow;
   however this does not imply that the simplified themes are shallow.
   To the contrary, the idea that friendship is magic is reflected
   across all aspects of life, just under different names. In the
   workplace, it’s called synergy; in the town square, it’s called
   community; and at home, it’s called family. Almost everywhere, people
   value these attributes present in the show: generosity, kindness,
   loyalty, honesty, and laughter.  As such, the core theme of MLP:FiM
   directly interfaces with that of the human experience, and thus it is
   profound. It may not be as complex as life becomes, but meaningful it
   sure is.

   The other major theme of MLP:FiM isn’t as obvious, yet still can be
   derived from the show’s name. The trademark “My Little Pony” carries
   with it all the stigma society has for more traditionally
   feminine(*2) aspects.  Typically, being feminine is associated with
   being weak and being masculine is associated with being strong, and

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 29                      About Them Ponies               30 June 2016

   these associations carry forward into much of the media.  From motion
   pictures displaying female characters as nothing more than damsels in
   distress, to TV shows aimed at female audiences being rated less
   favorable than they should(*3), this difference in appreciation
   between masculinity and femininity is very real. Knowing this, a show
   aimed at girls like MLP:FiM very easily could have affirmed the
   societal norm that femininity is weak, either directly or indirectly.

   Instead, MLP:FiM does just the opposite, taking what some would
   classify as weak feminine traits and demonstrating how they are
   actually strengths. This is done firstly by making the cast almost
   entirely female, which allows for the expression of many strong and
   different female personas. More masculine characters like Rainbow
   Dash and Applejack show how being female doesn’t equate with
   traditional weak stereotypes; both are athletic and tough. Equally
   important though are the characters who embrace many feminine
   attributers like Fluttershy and Rarity. Rarity’s not just a
   fashionista; she’s a successful business pony achieving her the dream
   through her hard work, and Fluttershy’s kindness alone has swayed
   several villains from destroying their world. While both are
   feminine, they are not weak as it is their femininity which gives
   them their strength of character.

   The aesthetic of MLP:FiM also accomplishes this, as it incorporates
   feminine elements frequently into the show in a way that’s natural
   and enjoyable. The show mainly features emotion-based conflicts often
   around female centered activities like spa visits, galas, and tea
   parties. When combined with the colorful art style and the fact
   they’re all ponies, the show gives off a very strong female
   vibration. However, injected between all the feminine aspects there
   is mythological lore, situational comedy, slapstick, sarcasm, and
   best of all, a self-awareness about how girly the show is at times.
   It’s not untypical for one of the more masculine characters to rebuke
   a group hug at the end, or to object to how sappy the dialog becomes.
   In the end it balances out; as the show embraces what is feminine, it
   also embraces what isn’t, thus demonstrating that femininity is not
   something less good, but something equally amazing.

   This theme is exactly what show creator Lauren Faust wanted to
   capture when she created the show. In her own words(*4):

    |
    |  “Rainbows, unicorns, fairy tales, hearts, stars, cupcakes, and of
    |  course, pretty pastel ponies. Many people look at these things
    |  and roll their eyes. They can’t imagine there could be anything
    |  more to such things beyond what they appear to be. But not little
    |  girls. They know something that we do not … If we give little
    |  girls a respectful interpretation of the things they like – if we
    |  dare to take it as seriously as they do – we will see for
    |  ourselves that it’s not so silly at all. We can truly appreciate
    |  the merit they see in it. And, amazingly, we can enjoy it

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 29                      About Them Ponies               30 June 2016

    |  ourselves.”
    |

   This is the hidden theme of MLP:FiM, an appreciation for all that is
   feminine, and while it is not as obvious as the “Friendship is Magic”
   theme, it is one very unique to this show, and one I full heartedly
   believe in.

   Thus are the themes of the show, “My Little Pony: Friendship is
   Magic.” Or at least, what I think they are. Make sure to drop a
   comment or something if you have something to say about the themes of
   MLP:FiM. I’ll (hopefully) be doing responses, so write write write!








































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 29                      About Them Ponies               30 June 2016


                               References:
   1. I say “first three seasons” not because the newer seasons fail to 
      support these original themes but because they move further away
      from what the show was originally about. The show now is much
      broader than it originally was.
   2. From here on out, I’ll be using the term “feminine” in place of 
      “traditionally feminine” (and vice versa for “masculinity”) simply
      to cut down on verbiage. The differences are important, but this
      post is not about the ever changing definition of femininity and
      masculinity.
   3. http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/men-are-sabotaging-the-online-
      reviews-of-tv-shows-aimed-at-women/
   4. Snider, Brandon T. The Elements of Harmony: My Little Pony, 
      Friendship Is Magic, the Official Guidebook. New York: Little,
      Brown and Company, n.d. Print. 




































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

