ATP 27                      About Them Ponies               23 June 2016


                            About Them Ponies
             MLP Fandom Analysis and its Challenges (Part 2)

   (continued from Part 1)(*1)

   I’d say the point of FiM discourse and discussion is to better
   understand our favorite cartoon horse program. Nothing more, nothing
   less. It might not sound like entertainment, but if done well,
   there’s nothing else more engaging. As many of us have been surprised
   by the sheer shock of goodness that is My Little Pony: friendship is
   magic, we’ve all demonstrated that we love that feeling of intrigue
   to the point of becoming (sadly) addicted to colorful ponies. While
   fan creations satisfy that desperate need of pony, it’s much harder
   to satisfy that curiosity, as in order to be curious, there must be
   something unknown. However, none of us will ever know everything
   about pony, thus there is a market to capitalize off of! Only through
   active discourse can we begin to know why you like the show, why I
   liked last week’s episode, and collectively why we’re all freakishly
   obsessed with ponies. In any good discussion, both parties should
   learn something new, feel intellectually stimulated, and perhaps even
   inspired. This is the goal of MLP discourse as well as what the
   analysis community should be striving for. It might not be something
   you want all the time, but to not have it at all would be a shame.

   Achieving this is no easy feat, but I believe in the smart and
   talented people of the analysis community, and I believe we as a
   fandom can always do better (myself included). At the moment, the
   analysis community is split into two different camps: the spotlight
   youTubers and all us writers hiding in the darkness of our own blogs.
   Both fall prey to common blunders, but each camp also has its
   pitfalls which it’s very susceptible to.

   One of the challenges both camps will always face is the (potential)
   lack of strong and solid reasoning in their reviews/analyses. As
   stated earlier, no one expects formal analysis out of any pony, but
   at the same time one can’t really make any kind of statement if one’s
   reasons are clear. There’s nothing worse than reading a long,
   passionate, rally condemning an episode where all of the reasoning is
   clearly questionable. In situations like this, the reader never truly
   understands the author’s argument, thus the entire aim of discourse
   is defeated. However, this is an extreme case, and more often the
   logical loophole is less obvious. Usually the fault is when the
   reviewer justifies their argument with only surface-level reasons.
   Typical surface level reasons include “they’re out of character” or
   “the pony was too much of a stereotype.” While these observations may
   be valid, that doesn’t mean that they prove one’s point. Too often
   observations like these (as well as less obvious observations) are
   used without further evidence and warranting, both of which are a
   must to create an excellent argument.


brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 27                      About Them Ponies               23 June 2016

   Perhaps an even bigger issue than the strength or weaknesses of
   arguments is the fact that within the youTube scene, almost everypony
   is exclusively doing reviews. While reviews can definitely make good
   discussion starters, more often than not they focus on answering the
   question “Is the episode good or bad?” As the whole good-bad
   dichotomy is entirely subjective, focusing a review on answering that
   question is a bit arbitrary, and it can lead away from actually
   appreciating an episode for what it accomplished. A further dilemma
   of the youTube camp is that it takes an incredible amount of work
   needed to create a video, and the time it takes to do that takes away
   from time potentially spent writing amazing arguments. It also forces
   the creator to have to visually entertain the viewer; as funny as it
   can be, it too takes away from the writing of the script.

   In the writing side of things, there are a completely different set
   of issues. While not having to create a visual presentation can allow
   more focus into the writing, it usually doesn’t happen. With a lower
   threshold of entry as well as less embarrassment if it’s bad, the
   textual MLP discourse is usually worse than that of the youTube
   scene. It’s also a lot more difficult to find what most would call
   “high quality” writing due to the sheer amount of writing out there
   as well as the fact it’s not all centralized on one site like
   youTube.  Even with the ability to directly respond to and feature
   another’s work (like I’m hoping to accomplish here), there’s still
   not a significant plethora of MLP related ideas being explored.

   At the end of the day, it’s difficult to identify and solve every
   challenge that MLP analysis has and will have. The above challenges
   are only a few examples that I thought of (probably not even the most
   important ones), and all of them are subject to change and fluctuate.
   The people who pick up the pen and try their luck at the nonsense
   also fluctuate, as people are always coming and leaving the fandom.
   The goal of the pursuit, however, will always remain the same: to
   better understand the world of Equestria and the fandom that loves
   it. As a fan of that show, I can think of no better way to show our
   love for it than to try to explain why we love it so.

   We’re doing responses on a Sunday. Yeah, crazy I know. Get your
   responses in unless you’re AidanofVT. Casue you already have yours
   in; everypony else is slacking (jk, but only partially). I can’t
   write responses to comments that don’t exist.











brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 27                      About Them Ponies               23 June 2016


                               References:
   1. http://brambleshadow4.github.io/ATP/ATP26.txt

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

