ATP 20                      About Them Ponies                29 May 2016


                            About Them Ponies
         “Applejack’s Day off” and the competence of Applejack.

   My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic has always benefitted from its
   cast of characters having strengths but also weaknesses. In the
   beginning, each and every one of the Mane 6 had a defining
   characteristic, their element of harmony, and along with its strength
   came its pitfall. Pinkie Pie can be too enthusiastic to the point of
   driving others crazy, Fluttershy too kind to actually do something
   that needs to be done, and Twilight too obsessed with magic to
   realize that a task might be solved better another way. These initial
   strength/weakness pairings helped carry forward much of the series’
   development, but at some point each member of the cast has to break
   away from their trope and develop other abilities and make new
   mistakes. As the show moves forward, each character continues to have
   their individual pluses and minuses all the while becoming more and
   more complex overall.

   However, this model of developing characters through their forte and
   flaw doesn’t work well for characters like Applejack, as Applejack
   has always been one of the most reliable members of the Mane 6. She’s
   hard working and honest, and those two traits alone keep her out of
   the usual trouble and conflict most episodes are based around.
   Really, the only way Applejack messes up big time is when she’s wrong
   about a subject and/or her stubbornness prevents her from seeing
   another point of view. This doesn’t happen often though, as
   Applejack’s life experiences usually point her in the right
   direction.

   Thus, Applejack has always been very competent, and this week’s
   episode confirms this by presenting her as the “I can fix everything”
   kind of pony. When she goes to take her day off and runs into trouble
   at the spa, she doesn’t complain or get exasperated like the other
   ponies waiting in line. Rather, she starts critically thinking about
   the pipe works, and before long, she’s already discovered the source
   of the problem and jumps into action fixing it. Everything turns out
   well for the spa ponies, but it’s only due to Applejack’s competence;
   without her, the spa would have continued to be in disarray.

   In order to have this episode feature Applejack as a flawed character
   needed to improve though, the writers take away the same
   characteristic that they just gave her: competence. Immediately
   following the scenes in the spa, we see Applejack out on the farm
   doing her usual farming chores. As these are the tasks Applejack has
   been doing ever since she was a filly, we’d expect her to be nothing
   short of excellent at them. To be fair, Applejack is quite good at
   her tasks, as Twilight herself struggles to do them even with step by
   step instructions, but the tasks themselves are so horribly
   inefficient that one wonders how Sweet Apple Acres managed to turn
   any sort of profit during the last century. Applejack is a blundering

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 20                      About Them Ponies                29 May 2016

   buffoon out there on the farm, and out there it’s hard to label her
   as anything other than incompetent.

   So here we have Applejack, a mare so talented she can fix the
   problems of another’s business single hoofed within an hour yet can’t
   figure out how to efficiently manage her own after working on her
   farm for years. I understand that Applejack’s character includes a
   streak of stubbornness, but stretching this stubbornness to the point
   of incompetency is not a good way to have Applejack grow as a
   character. If we think back to the first Applejack episode, S1:E4
   “Applebuck Season,” it was Applejack’s stubbornness that made her not
   want to ask for help, but this stubbornness was a manifestation of
   her pride, in part due to her competence as a farmer. She didn’t fail
   not because she wasn’t good; she failed because the task was too
   large, and her pride refused to acknowledge that. Jumping forward to
   other Applejack episodes like “The Last Roundup,” Applejack’s fault
   was again not in her ability, as she won many ribbons at that rodeo.
   Rather, her fault was her stubborn promise to return with prize
   money, and she stayed away from home because she couldn’t keep it.
   Both of these conflicts don’t sacrifice Applejack’s competence, but
   rather embrace it and build off of a struggle to remain prideful in
   the face of defeat.

   “Applejack’s Day off” feel a bit phony because it relies on Applejack
   losing some of that competence to a stubborn routine. Applejack
   though, is so much more than a farmer who commits inefficiencies in a
   day’s chores. She’s the pony who goes into the spa on a day off and
   ends up fixing the place rather than relaxing. She’s that tireless,
   hard-working beast that keeps the Mane 6’s insanity in check, rather
   than the other way around. To have such a strong (and I mean in the
   ‘can withstand anything’ sense) character developed means that the
   writers can throw all sorts of challenges her way. And I’m waiting,
   wanting to see how much she can handle, how much she can grow when
   such a challenge comes face to face with her competence.

   Let me know what you thought of the episode, and I’ll write back to
   you all on Thursday. Brambleshadow4 out!















brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

