ATP 28                      About Them Ponies               26 June 2016


                            About Them Ponies
     A Response to AidanofVT: “MLP Fan Analysis and its Challenges”

   As this is the hiatus contiues, I can't really visit any
   forums/disqus threads to find on-topic responses (because most people
   do not write responses to my own). However, I hold comment responses
   to be an important aspect of this blog, so I will always respond to
   the few I have, but in case of zero responses, I’m open to
   suggestions. Feel free to send me links to MLP related topics you all
   want to see discussed, and I just might respond to them (or your
   own).

   Now back to business. AidanofVT(*1) writes:

    |
    |  I think that the reasons for the analysis community being more of
    |  a review community are two-fold. First: analysis is really hard.
    |  As you say: proper analysis requires data, and this kind of data
    |  (MLP's transcripts) is difficult to shape into a cohesive
    |  argument. Second: analysis of MLP is ultimately futile. MLP has a
    |  lot of writers, some of whom have not actually watched every
    |  episode of the show. So we see different versions of characters,
    |  and different versions of their relationships, and even different
    |  canons altogether. This is especially true when you take the
    |  comics into account, which everyone seems to forget ARE
    |  OFFICIALLY CANON. What this means is that when the analysts in
    |  the community actually analyze, they sometimes put more effort
    |  into their interpretations of the show than the writers do when
    |  they write it. And even if the analysts do come up with a
    |  persuasive interpretation, they are liable to have it completely
    |  undone by next season's green-eared writers. Which isn't to say
    |  that My Little Pony shouldn't expand its canon: it definitely
    |  should. But the show-runners need to be mindful of what's
    |  expanding the canon, and what's altering it.
    |
    |  So why do the analysts do what they do? I think they do it simply
    |  for their own pleasure. There's a core group of maybe eight
    |  people who give as much attention to each other as they do to the
    |  fandom or the actual show. It's obvious that they like to have
    |  their little club, and I wouldn't want to deprive them of it. But
    |  as you imply, it's a little irritating how they hold themselves
    |  on the high plinth of analysis.
    |

   I find both of Aidan’s points to be perfectly valid. As we are in
   agreement on the first, there’s no need to really elaborate on the
   point, though I do want to mention that actual analysis of MLP can go
   beyond just looking at the transcripts. A while back, I pushed out my
   first (and by our rigorous definition of analysis, only) analysis
   presentation where I talked about the tone of MLP:FiM. As tone is

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 28                      About Them Ponies               26 June 2016

   formally used in literary analysis, I was easily able to use it as
   evidence for my argument. This is something I wish more of the
   analysis community did, because there are so many elements of FiM
   that can be used as evidence, though very rarely do we see them
   cited. Besides the obvious dialog, things like tone, facial
   expressions, styles, and themes all can be used as the subject of
   analysis, but frequently aren’t.

   I also agree that some aspects of FiM are futile to analyze, but even
   with canonical conflicts, I still think analysis is possible. As each
   episode contains its own narrative, it’s very doable to analyze them
   in isolation, and there are benefits to doing so. FiM is episodic,
   which (theoretically) means that any episode can be watched in any
   order and still be followed. Obviously, there are limitations as big
   episodes like “Magical Mystery Cure” and “Crusaders of the Lost Mark”
   rely almost entirely on previous development (as well as two part
   episodes). Aside from such and similar exceptions, episodes that
   don’t make sense on their own are flawed, though this is very hard to
   notice without the isolation.

   However, as most episodes do standalone, the real benefit of isolated
   analysis is that it allows us to make the best out of every episode.
   I think too often people criticize an episode based on not itself,
   but other episodes. If episode Z is a good Fluttershy standing up for
   herself episode, people will always complain that it’s just another
   version of episodes X and Y, even if episodes X and Y were not as
   good individually. The fact that there’s n Fluttershy standing up for
   herself episodes isn’t a problem with episode Z; it’s a problem of
   the show itself. Although, it is nice to have multiple stories with
   similar archetypes as it makes it easier to examine the individual
   elements; perhaps X has better comedy, but Z is more heartfelt.

   At this point I’m straying away from the original argument about the
   lack of consistency causing analysis to be futile, but I do think
   that through this process of isolating episodes, analysis is easily
   possible both within and between episodes despite inconsistencies. I
   also don’t think that with the TV show itself there are many of
   these. If we factor in the comic canon (which not all of us have
   read, as not all of us want to buy all the comics, though I have read
   some), we run into a lot more problems, though I’m sure we can fix
   the problem with a few headcanons. I propose the following:

    |
    |  In S1:E1, the show begins with the opening of a book. The
    |  contents of the book are events from the golden age of Equestria,
    |  when it was ruled by Princess Celestia, her pupil Twilight
    |  Sparkle, and her five main friends. However, the events happened
    |  so long ago that no pony remembers what really happened. Over the
    |  ages, ponies have found record of new stories and forgotten older
    |  ones. What remains between the book’s covers is the most accurate
    |  representation of the time.

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 28                      About Them Ponies               26 June 2016

    |

   Anyways, the Ancient Equestrian History Headcanon (AEHH) provides a
   good work around for any and all problems with the canon, and as many
   stories of old are like this, such a head-canon might not be that
   far-fetched. That’s not to say that I don’t think that the writers
   should stay as consistent as possible, but I don’t see it as a
   make-or-break factor when it comes to analysis.

   I also agree that people analyze, or more generally discuss, ponies
   because they love it. After all, I’m clearly not writing this blog
   because of the THOUSANDS of fan emails people are sending me (in case
   you didn’t catch on, dear reader, that was sarcasm. Please don’t send
   me a thousand emails). Most people fall into the same category, as
   content creation takes effort and high-quality content even more so.
   With the backlash that the analysis community usually gets,
   analysis/discussion is probably the hardest way to gain a following,
   so anyone who keeps at it has to be very self-motivated. This means
   that there’s a very large amount of hard-working “analysis” bronies
   and a large audience for only a few (as is with most types of
   entertainment). Out of this set, what defines the subset commonly
   referred to as “the analysis community?” Is it the hardest working,
   the most popular, or the most thoughtfully critical?

   At this point, it’s all a matter of politics. If a person labels
   themselves as part of that community, it should be because they are
   actively committed to discussing the show, and not any other reason.
   However, the most visible of the analysis community never seems to
   discuss the show with those outside of that top tier. They might in
   their comment sections, but that’s definitely not as visible as their
   typical reviews. If one took the time to create videos showcasing
   other’s thoughts alongside their own, I bet you that reviewer would
   face significantly less negativity. I could be wrong about that, but
   as there are no top reviewers doing such, I can’t know for sure. I
   personally don’t hold anything against them; as a person who’s made a
   few MLP videos, I’m more amazed at their work ethic than anything.

   Okay, that’s around 400 words longer that I intended. No wonder I’m
   so hungry now. Catch you all later this week!













brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 28                      About Them Ponies               26 June 2016


                               References:
   1. http://aboutthemponies.tumblr.com/post/146179306115/mlp-fandom-ana
      lysis-and-its-challenges-part-1#comment-2741013712
















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

