ATP 2                       About Them Ponies              26 March 2016


                            About Them Ponies
          “The Crystalling” and the multi-threaded world of FiM

   At the beginning of the show, there were six characters that the
   writers had to work with. Twilight Sparkle, Applejack, Rainbow Dash,
   Rarity, Fluttershy and Pinkie Pie. Using these six characters as
   threads, the writers were able to sew together a wide variety of
   colorful stories, and when needed, they introduced new threads to
   provide variety to the same Mane 6 fabric we’re all used to. Now that
   we’re in season 6, the pony universe is huge! There’s so many
   characters for the writers to work with, the amount of stories they
   could tell without bound, and you can taste the anticipation for
   what’s yet to come.

   In this episode of My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic, there are no
   new characters introduced. Rather, we get a story involving an
   incredibly large cast of ponies we’re familiar with: The Mane 6,
   Princess Celestia, Luna, and Cadance, Spike, Shining Armor, Starlight
   Glimmer, the recently introduced Sun Burst, and the newly born foal
   Flurry Heart. Almost all of the usual protagonists are here, with the
   exception of the CMC.

   And unlike earlier episodes, where the large cast has lead to
   marginalized characters (such as in “Twilight’s Kingdom”, “The
   Crystalling” does a very nice job of giving every cast member a
   purpose. Pinkie and Shining get to worry about Flurry Heart, the
   princesses get to worry about saving the world via magic spells, the
   Mane six get to enjoy trying to keep everypony else calm and relaxed,
   and Spike Starlight and Sun Burst get to enjoy the “friendship
   problem” (usually resolved in 23 minutes).

   As I said, the incorporation of all the characters into one season
   opener is difficult, and I find myself pleasantly surprised at Josh
   Haber’s work here. It was fun to see more of characters we don’t
   normally get to see, in particular, I like seeing more of Princess
   Celestia and Cadance. Spike also benefited from the additional air
   time, and the whole Starlight/Sun Burst backstory definitely became
   more fleshed out. This did, however, come at the cost of development
   of the mane 6, who get almost no development from this episode.
   Nonetheless, they all benefit from their cameos, and who doesn’t
   enjoy watching Pinkie Pie once more filly-sit.

   But while I enjoy the elaborate weaving of these characters’ threads
   together, I don’t know if I find the overall tapestry most beautiful.
   Up until the end of the first episode, there’s little conflict to
   drive home the episode. Flurry’s sudden outcry does give the episode
   the urgency needed to climax, but it’s hard to relate to. Unless you
   ski in an avalanche zone with your newborn child on back, it’s not
   likely that a baby’s cry is going to quickly escalate to the point of
   dying. It’s a nice twist from the usual MLP villain season opener,

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 2                       About Them Ponies              26 March 2016

   but this part story isn’t as powerful as Starlight’s regime or
   Discord’s manipulation from earlier premiers.

   However, Haber does keep bringing more and more characters into the
   fabric, and with Starlight, Sunburst, and Flurry Heart being further
   explored by the canon, I’m ripe with anticipation to see just what
   other stories they’re willing to try that build off this.

   Anyways, what were some of your thoughts on the MLP Season 6 opener?
   Leave a comment below and I’ll discuss them in a comment response
   post.









































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

