ATP 36                      About Them Ponies               28 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
             The Friendship Games Soundtrack: A Closer Look

   Doesn’t look like there’s any mail (comments, replies, etc.) for me
   this week. I really do want to hear from other fans, so always feel
   free to write to me about ponies. In the time before Season 6 resumes
   (yay), I want to point out some observations regarding a relatively
   unexplored piece of canon, the My Little Pony Equestria Girls: The
   Friendship Games official soundtrack.

   While the Equestria Girls franchise itself is fairly removed from the
   world of Friendship is Magic, the music from the franchise is very
   similar to what we can typically expect from the show; Daniel Ingram
   writes the songs for both, the singers for each character are kept
   consistent for both, and while the subject matter of the songs is
   usually derived from the plot, the EG franchise always has a few
   songs which are more abstract, and these are almost always about
   friendship. For these reasons, I think any fan of the show’s music
   would also be a fan of the EG soundtracks, regardless of their liking
   of EG in general.

   The FG soundtrack itself had a lot of hype to live up to. Its
   predecessor, Rainbow Rocks, built its narrative around music, being
   both the tool of the villains as well as our protagonists. With such
   a strong emphasis on music, it’s no surprise that the soundtrack
   kicks some serious tail. The first entry in the series, Equestria
   Girls, doesn’t have this focus, and when its soundtrack was
   ultimately released (later than RRs, interestingly) it only featured
   five songs. Yet it too contains a powerful and memorable song,
   “Equestria Girls” (i.e. the cafeteria song).

   Looking at FG, the first observation to make is that it does feature
   10 songs, but its 10 songs aren’t all featured in the movie itself.
   This is an interesting decision, as it breaks trend with the EG
   soundtrack (which didn’t include all of its songs as “This Strange
   World” is missing), and the RR soundtrack (which includes all songs),
   which brings into question whether Hasbro is having difficulty
   filling their albums up with meaningful songs. In the same sense that
   MLP:FiM is designed to sell toys, one wonders whether the four extra
   songs were composed to sell the CD.

   The six songs from the movie itself are the final six songs on the
   soundtrack. They are:

    1. The Friendship Games
    2. CHS Rally Song
    3. What More Is Out There
    4. Acadeca
    5. Unleash the Magic
    6. Right There in Front of Me

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 36                      About Them Ponies               28 July 2016

   When looking at the FG songs in comparison to the other two
   soundtracks, it’s easy to see what other “versions” of the same song
   are available on other the other soundtracks. For instance, all three
   movies have their opening title song: “Opening Titles (Remix)”,
   “Rainbow Rocks”, and “The Friendship Games” as well as their main
   friendship song, “Equestria Girls” “Shine Like Rainbows”  and “Right
   There in Front of Me” which for the latter two films also serves as
   their credits song. While it is our responsibility to try to enjoy
   every song in its own right, it’s very easy to see the connections
   between these songs, and by comparison, FG’s closing song doesn’t
   really stand up against either “Shine Like Rainbows” or “Equestria
   Girls” as it doesn’t provide any nothing new to the series. It’s also
   important to note that “Let the Rainbow Remind You” and “Friends are
   Always There for You” from their respective season finales also fall
   into the same boat; for whatever reason, these songs don’t pack as
   big of a punch as “Equestria Girls” and “Shine Like Rainbows” do,
   probably because they don’t line up with the rising action and
   denouement of their respective stories. The opening number, “The
   Friendship Games” fairs better in terms of making an impact, as its
   soft timber at the beginning feels mysterious, unlike typical MLP
   openings which are ridiculously cheerful and upbeat.

   The other songs from the movie are pretty standard, but good, Dainel
   Ingram songs. “Acadeca” stands out the most in my mind, as the first
   two minutes are nothing but clever-rhyming PG trash talk (not
   dissimilar from “Tricks Up My Sleeve” from RR). This is in stark
   contrast to the usual kindness and consideration characters from FiM
   exuberate, and when placed alongside the other songs, it makes for a
   great laugh. Another fun fact about “Acadeca” is that one of its
   motifs ends up appearing later in “The Magic Inside” albeit the key
   has been changed and it’s been slowed down. Check out the links below
   to hear it in action:

   The Magic Inside 1:03(*1)

   Acadeca 0:40(*2)

   But the real treat from the Friendship Games is “What More is Out
   There,” but not the version present in the sound track and film. In
   the deleted scenes included on the DVD (and presumably Blu Ray) is an
   animatic featuring the original arrangement of this song, and unlike
   the final version, it’s a duet in between Sunset Shimmer and (EG)
   Twilight. This version of the song is even more powerful, as its
   lyrics capture a struggle shared unknowingly between Twilight and
   Sunset; both are content with what they have, yet both desire what
   lies just beyond their reach. It was cut from the film along with
   other Sunset Shimmer development because there was too much happening
   in one film, but the original version remains as something to be
   treasured.



brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 36                      About Them Ponies               28 July 2016

   Getting away from the film itself, the four other songs are as
   follows:

    1. Friendship through the Ages
    2. My Past is Not Today
    3. Life is a Runway
    4. Dance Magic

   All of these songs occupy a really strange place in the canon. While
   “Friendship through the Ages,” “My Past is Not Today,” and “Life is a
   Runway” all have music videos associated with them, “Dance Magic”
   doesn’t, and it’s not featured anywhere within FG either. Furthermore
   the lyrics mention “Crystal Prep” and “Crystal Rainbooms,” both of
   which seem to suggest some kind of friendly social gathering between
   the two schools. Again, this gathering is non-existent, though I
   suppose it could have been cut from the end of the film (but then,
   why wouldn’t the scene be in the bonus features like the other scenes
   cut out from the end?).

   Something harder to spot is that the three extra “Rainbow Rocks”
   music videos were actually animated alongside the Friendship Games,
   despite being labeled as “Rainbow Rocks.” If you look carefully at
   Sunset Shimmer’s leather jacket in “My Past is Not Today,” you’ll
   noticed it’s of a different style than her jacket in “Rainbow Rocks.”
   As noted in the audio commentary of FG, this is Sunset’s redesign,
   and it’s associated with Friendship Games, not Rainbow Rocks.

   Oddities aside, each of these songs have their own charm. “Life is a
   Runway” embodies Rarity’s doctrine of finding your own style and
   being yourself, “Dance Magic” as well, but in a different context,
   and there’s many who relate to Sunset in “My Past is Not Today.”
   However, I believe “Friendship through the Ages” to be the most
   introspective and thoughtful song of all the above, as well as the
   rest of the soundtrack.

   Consider the opening lyrics: What do they describe?

    |
    |  Nothing stays the same for long but when it changes doesn't mean
    |  it's gone
    |
    |  Time will always get away as it leaves behind another day
    |
    |  Things may come and things may go. Some go fast and some go slow
    |
    |  Few things last, that's all I know but friendship carries on
    |  through the ages
    |




brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 36                      About Them Ponies               28 July 2016

   From the music video, one thinks of the lyrics as advice the Mane 6
   give to Sunset Shimmer. However, this explanation doesn’t fit, as the
   advice speaks from a different time, one beyond the Mane 6 and Sunset
   at their present. The advice sounds like something a parent or a
   mentor would say to the next generation, not something spoken from a
   young friend to another young friend. Interpreting the lyrics with
   that in mind, the lyrics are not spoken from the characters, but from
   their creators, the show staff, and they’re speaking to us, the
   (presumably) younger audience.  “Things may come and things may go”
   the show creators say. “Some go fast and some go slow,” meaning that
   whatever it is, we have no idea how long it will last. “Few things
   last, that’s all I know” signifies that the show creators think it
   will end at some point, but yet “friendship carries on through the
   ages.” Friendship. Friendship is Magic. Friendship will carry on
   through the ages, but MLP Friendship is Magic will not. That’s what
   they’re trying to tell us. Bingo.

   “Friendship through the Ages” is a meta-commentary on the show and
   the fandom. Because both have come, and both will go. We have no idea
   how fast or how slow the duration of the show and fandom will be, but
   one thing’s absolutely for certain. Friendship, the core message of
   the show and the real world connections it has fostered among its
   community, will last forever. My mind is blown. You genius Daniel
   Ingram.

   That’s all I have for the moment. Drop a comment if you want, and I
   shall respond. Also, I’m celebrating my 2nd Broniversery tonight,
   yay! This is Brambleshadow4 signing out.
























brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

ATP 36                      About Them Ponies               28 July 2016


                               References:
   1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FRkpzMDr8yA&t=63
   2. https://youtu.be/dzSwC9HkNxI?t=40
















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 5]

