ATP 39                      About Them Ponies              7 August 2016


                            About Them Ponies
        “The Cart before the Ponies” and the average MLP episode

   Throughout the years of pony, there’s been many episodes, and with
   that many comes statistics. Across all whooping 131 episodes, some
   must be better, some must be worse, and some must average between the
   extremes. This quality gradient exists no matter what, but it is
   different from person to person as everyone has a different
   definition of what is good and what is bad. Based on our preferences
   for characters and our differentiating morals, various episodes will
   rub the right way while others won’t. It’s not uncommon for writers
   to try something new with their episodes, only to be met with a mixed
   reception (Dave Polsky episodes are almost always a good example of
   this), and as the seasons keep chugging on, more and more episodes
   push this envelope.

   “The Cart before the Ponies” is not one of those episodes. Even after
   the CMC have earned their cutie marks, they’re still excited to learn
   and try something new. And even after Rainbow Dash, Rarity, and
   Applejack have learned so much from each other over the years,
   Rainbow is still obsessed with speed, Applejack is still stubborn,
   and Rarity still must try to stand out, often causing much calamity
   to follow. Using these character’s tropes in such as way is something
   the show has done a lot in all 130 episodes prior, making this
   episode not the result of an experiment, but the product of a tried
   and true formula.  In this sense, it is your average episode of
   MLP:FiM, a story built from the conflict caused by the quirks of its
   characters.

   In addition to this, the episode’s plot develops in a similar way to
   other MLP episodes, causing it to feel predictable. It begins with
   the Crusaders learning about the derby, and quickly their excitement
   passes from them to their sisters. Soon, it becomes clear that AJ,
   Rarity and Rainbow are taking over the project, and in that moment
   the audience knows exactly where this conflict is going. The audience
   knows that something’s going to go wrong, and that it will be the
   fault of these three. Sure enough, the carts crash and they finally
   learn their lesson. With the audience’s predictions being spot on,
   all that’s left is the story’s primary lesson: Don’t be oblivious and
   don’t be a control freak. Overall, a pretty average plot with a
   pretty average moral.

   So why doesn’t this average episode leave the kind of impact that I’d
   say the average MLP episode has? While it’s true that more risky
   (i.e. less formulaic) MLP episodes have the ability to make a huge
   impact (or be a total flop), the majority of episodes are similar to
   the one aired today. For instance, “Tanks for the Memories” also
   features an obvious setup (Tank’s going to hibernate) and conclusion
   (You’re going to be pet-less Dash), and its moral (don’t go crazy and
   try to stop winter) is also pretty simple, yet “Tanks for the

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 39                      About Them Ponies              7 August 2016

   Memories” makes at least ten times the impact that “The Cart Before
   the Ponies” does. Thus the lack of impact can’t really be blamed on
   it following the formula; rather, something subtle was present in
   other episodes that didn’t quite make it into “The Cart before the
   Ponies.”

   To me, I think the missing ingredient might be a lack of plot twist.
   Looking once again at “Tanks for the Memories,” part of the reason
   this episode is great is because no one expects Rainbow to sabotage
   the weather factory, and no one expects her to break down in tears.
   Similar twists can be found throughout otherwise predictable season
   one episodes: no one expects Pinkie Pie to go completely crazy in
   “Party of One”, no one expects Rarity to hold it together in “A Dog
   and Pony Show”, no one expects the Mane 6 to literally destroy the
   Grand Galloping Gala in “The Best Night Ever.” These plots twists are
   what keep us engaged throughout an episode; we always know that it
   will end in sunshine and rainbows, but before then, it really might
   all go to hell. That surprise is one of the best things about the
   show, and an episode that goes straight forward without them is that
   much more boring.

   However, one thing this episode does do well is joke around. As MLP
   traditionally is thought of as a situational comedy, the average
   episode must have its share of puns, and this week definitely pulled
   a few good ones. From Cheerilee teaching physics, to Rarity earning
   second place in creativity, to how freaking slow AJ’s cart is, there
   were quite a few laughs to be had. Throw in yet another catchy song
   by Daniel Ingram and background music by William Anderson, and this
   average episode is starting to look pretty nice, like most (if not
   all) MLP episodes.

   But what did you think of this episode? Does it stick out as being
   too average without trying anything new? I’m already contemplating a
   lot of potential complaints others might have, but I can’t really
   know unless you want to share. Please drop a comment; I’ll be doing
   comment responses on Thursday as always.

   Brambleshadow4 out!














brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

