ATP 30                      About Them Ponies                3 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
           Response to KP: “Does Chrysalis Have A Character?”

   For today’s pseudo-comment-response, we’ll be taking a look at KP’s
   (a.k.a. ILoveKimPossibleAlot) latest work in her analysis series,
   “Does Chrysalis have a character?” It’s only a four minute video, and
   as this will be a response, watching it only makes sense. I’ve
   embedded it below, but alternatively, here’s a hyperlink(*1)

   What we usually see from KP’s channel is a lot of review videos about
   the episodes of our favorite show (as is typical with most
   analyst/reviewer channels). In said reviews, KP usually throws in her
   thoughts about the episode while including an extraordinary amount of
   references to other works. I dare say that half the review is usually
   nothing more than the references, and while that style is not up my
   alley, I’m sure it’s entertaining and enjoyable to many. Alongside
   these reviews is the analysis series, of which the above video is
   from. In comparison with her reviews, KP definitely keeps up her
   typical style of making reference based jokes, but the above
   definitely is more purposed as KP sticks to arguing her point more
   than the usual reviews. Within the video itself, KP uses a few
   comparisons to help make her point. The biggest one is her comparison
   of Chrysalis to Darth Vader, but not to be forgotten is her
   comparison of Chrysalis and Discord. By the end of the video, she
   presents her thesis “Develop your characters as much as you can” and
   promptly it ends.

   Summary aside, it’s time to look closer.

   One of the biggest issues involved with the development of Chrysalis
   as a character is her lack of screen time, just like most secondary
   characters. While other big villains like Discord, and Lord Tirek
   have two entire episodes featuring important scenes with them,
   Chrysalis doesn’t have that; she only appears during the second act
   of the second episode of “A Canterlot Wedding,” and not again until
   the brief clip of her in the season 5 finale. With only around half
   an episode of time to work with, expecting a fully developed
   character is a little out of the question for the moment.

   That said, KP’s comparision to Darth Vader’s lack of screen time
   holds valid, as Vader too, has very little screen time and actual
   development. I would not go as far to say that Chrysalis is MLP’s
   version of Darth Vader as Darth Vader’s presence is much more direct
   and affront while Chrysalis relies on secrets and subtlety. In fact,
   it is these attributes which make Chrysalis a stronger character from
   the get go; not only is she blatantly evil, but her metamorphic
   nature adds a layer of complexity to watch out for. Who she disguises
   as, where she goes, and when she strikes are all clues from which her
   character can be further extended. Darth Vader, on the other hand,
   can’t really be developed further. Sure, there’s the whole “Luke, I

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 30                      About Them Ponies                3 July 2016

   am your father” part, but that’s more of a gimmick than actual
   development; Chrysalis could easily be given a similar story (that
   is, if the comics haven’t done so already).

   Her motive, as simple as it is, also helps her stand out beyond a
   generic trope. Other characters like Tirek and Sombra are simply evil
   for it’s own sake, and such a motive can’t really be elaborated any
   further. Chrysalis doesn’t have that problem, as her role as a hive
   queen can be expanded upon, either by giving her other royal duties
   or by delving further into her leadership position. She might seem
   like a closed character, but there’s definitely more to her that
   what’s currently presented in the show

   However, it’s also important to look beyond Chrysalis alone. While
   she certainly is a “dark character with a simple motivation,” it’s
   important to figure out how she interacts with the Mane 6. After all,
   if the protagonists develop as a result of their involvement with a
   character, all is well. However, if it is the secondary character
   that is developed, it’s problematic as it’s likely we’ll never see
   the secondary character return. It doesn’t matter how interesting the
   character is; if they never return, the development is wasted.

   When Chrysalis has appeared in the show, it’s always at an incredibly
   dire moment, as the Mane 6 are usually past the point of stopping her
   from succeeding in her pursuits. In this sense, Chrysalis is the
   bringer of despair, both literally and symbolically (after all, she
   steals love), and it functions well for the story. If a newer episode
   were to feature her, I’d expect her presence to function in a similar
   way. If this leads to her development, great, but if it doesn’t,
   that’s fine too, as long as her purpose makes sense. However, this is
   not the same as “developing your characters as much as you can.”
   While it might seem like more development would always be better, it
   really isn’t if it gets in the way of the larger story, and I fear
   Chrysalis development would.


















brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 30                      About Them Ponies                3 July 2016


                               References:
   1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ErnY3gy9iQM

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

