ATP 33                      About Them Ponies               17 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                             Post-Convention

   BronyCon.

   Ever since I heard about the largest of the MLP conventions I knew I
   wanted to go. Forget that fact that I had literally started watching
   the show nine days earlier and hadn’t even made it through season
   one. I had fallen in love with MLP, and I wanted nothing more than to
   be a fan and to be with its fans. Through good fortune I found myself
   working this summer on the east coast with an employer who didn’t
   mind me taking two days off for a trip. It was only a matter of me
   spending a little money to hop on a bus and discover whether this
   dream – now reality – would live up to unfathomable hype.

   After a hassle of late bus schedules, rerouting, and an extra hundred
   dollars down the drain, I found myself in downtown Baltimore. In a
   cab to my hotel, I saw it, the crowds of fans all wearing their pony
   t-shirts and cosplays. The driver knew all about it, saying there
   were ten thousand of us, all here. After getting my hotel room, I
   walked quickly to the convention center. On the street to the
   convention alone, there were ponies. Everywhere. All surrounding. It
   was surreal. I got my badge a mere 15 minutes before they closed
   registration and headed up the stairs, stumbling late into my first
   panel.

   From that moment onward, everything was lucid. Panels about ponies
   non-stop for 15 hours straight. More pony t-shirts and cosplays and
   art than I ever thought could have existed. Optimizing sleep and
   eating schedules to maximize both overall health and pure euphoria.
   Andrea Libman, Gabriel Brown, Silver Quill, Tabitha St. Germain,
   Samuel Miller, M. A. Larson, and more! People I had always wanted to
   meet, and people I never knew I wanted to meet. Sweep, sweep, sweep.
   Fun! Fun! Fun! Closing ceremony came quickly, and although I’d want
   the convention to last forever, if it did I wouldn’t have appreciated
   it as much.

   Afterwards, the intensity diminished, but it wasn’t a steep cutoff.
   Wandering around the harbor with my new friend, there was still fun
   to be had, and there were still ponies to be found. On my first bus
   back, I sat with another brony, and we showed each other the fan art
   we’d acquired as well as watch a movie together. Only when I was
   finally back in my room did the experience feel like it ended, even
   still the events are fresh in my mind a week later.

   BronyCon. I made it there, I made it back, and I didn’t go bankrupt.
   I’d give the experience a 10 out of 10 and I’d recommend it to any
   fan of the show. Now for a more critical commentary.



brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 33                      About Them Ponies               17 July 2016

   Any individual who goes to the convention is going to have a
   different experience, as there’s too many things to do. At any given
   point, there are usually multiple panels being run, hundreds of fan
   pieces available to buy in the vendor hall, an autograph line for
   various show staff, multiple games and competitions, people just
   hanging out in the convention center, and at evenings, the
   BronyPalooza concert. As an individual who enjoys discussion, I spent
   almost all of my time hitting the panels, making it to 16 over my
   time there (I missed the first 11 hours on Friday). It’s not that I
   didn’t want to get autographs, play games, or attend BronyPalooza, I
   was just enjoying the panels too much to want to do anything else.

   I’ve been to another convention of sorts, the Conference on World
   Affairs in Boulder, so I already was aware that panels often go a
   different direction than one expects and that Q&A sessions are almost
   always terrible. Even still, I enjoyed every single panel I went to,
   although not always for the reasons I thought I would. The panels
   fell into two categories: panels that were entertaining, and panels
   that were enlightening (or both). Funnily enough, this is exactly
   what the show Friendship is Magic typically is, a mix of goofy fun
   and meaningful messages, blended together to form a cohesive
   experience. If one only went to the fun-oriented panels, or one only
   went to the meaningful/insightful panels, one would miss out on a
   great part of what the convention had to offer.

   Between panels, I was able to check out the vendor hall. Walking
   through there felt like living inside an EQD Drawfriend: there’s pony
   art there of every style, as well as plushies and comics and buttons
   and t-shirts and all other crazy pony things.

   However, the most amazing experience is simply being in the
   convention center and watching it all: the pony shirts, the
   cosplayers, the BronyCon waiting-in-line traditions, and the
   diversity of the fandom.  In that place, one is inside the heart of
   the fandom, and that experience is truly surreal. However,
   interacting with individual fans can be a bit more of a mixed bag.
   Everypony wears a “color communication card” – red means don’t talk
   to me, yellow means don’t talk to me unless you know me, and green
   means feel free to talk to me. Even though most people have their
   card perpetually set to green, that doesn’t mean everypony is going
   to initialize conversation. As a fan who came alone, I realized that
   it was my responsibility to make those conversations happen.
   Nonetheless, the green badges and the pony t-shirts were
   encouragement enough to try my luck, and that Friday night, I made my
   first friend.

   To me, this is evidence that pony conventions do encourage and
   facilitate real life friendships, though it’s not without effort. Not
   everyone I talked to wanted to become instant friends (which is
   absolutely fine) and many came already fixated within their
   friendship circles. The result is a friendly convention, although not

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 33                      About Them Ponies               17 July 2016

   necessarily welcoming. More importantly though, BronyCon was all
   inclusive, and I was incredibly impressed by the fact that
   gender-inclusive bathrooms were available as well as support for the
   disabled and handicapped (Fun fact: the creator of BronyCon, Purple
   Tinker is a trans woman).

   The atmosphere itself was similar to the show, as the convention
   staff maintained that everything was “PG.” I really enjoyed this
   aspect because not only does it prevent potential conflict before it
   happens, the rule creates a space to celebrate the show for what it
   is, a PG cartoon about colorful equines, rather than less PG works
   fans often create. Of course, every once and a while there were a few
   things that slipped by. Some of the fan art in the vendor hall was
   saucy, someone would ask a question about the fanfic Cupcakes, the
   crowd in line for a panel would chant, “Crush, Kill, Destroy, Swag,”
   or the camera zoomed in on someone’s hat saying “Vote yes on Rule
   34.” Whether one likes these things or not, I was there at the
   convention to celebrate the show for what it is, not for what it
   isn’t, and the rule in the general kept everything at a good balance.

   At the end of the day, these are all little nitpicks that I observed
   about the convention, and none of them kept me from enjoying the
   convention and all that went smoothly (way to go BronyCon staff). I
   also haven’t included all the small, little things that made the
   convention so much fun: seeing Brad as M. A. Larson’s desktop
   background, hearing Tabitha St. Germain say she would make out with
   any brony, singing MLP songs with others while waiting for panels to
   begin, watching the analysts roast each other when an audience member
   shipped Silver Quill and Firebrand, hearing people say ‘yay’ when
   they saw my Fluttershy ‘yay’ T-shirt… This list goes on and on, and
   these are the things I’m going to remember about the convention, not
   the few and far in between negatives.

   I could ramble all day, so at over 1000 words, it’s time to warp up.
   Before I went to BronyCon, I asked myself a question: what is the
   fandom all about? Having only experienced the fandom online, there
   seemed to be no obvious answer. But the internet makes us forget that
   behind the drama on the screen there are real people, and those real
   people, the ones who call themselves Bronies, actually do love this
   show, despite how odd it might seem. We don’t all love the show for
   the same reasons: for some it might be just the current fad in a
   journey of many fandoms, for others the show might be something more
   that they will treasure for a life time. But we all love it to the
   point of publicly celebrating it with others, uniting in the magic of
   friendship to celebrate a great show while it lasts.







brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

