ATP 34                      About Them Ponies               21 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
           Thoughts on a fan animation: A Different Dispective

   I actually remember hearing ILoveKimPossibleAlot announce this at
   BronyCon, so I guess I shouldn’t be surprised that two weeks later
   her animation is now out, true to her word. Big projects like this
   don’t come out every day, so even if it isn’t one’s personal cup of
   tea, it’s worth checking out.

   (youTube source of embed)(*1)

   As I want to focus mainly on the thematic side of the animation, I’m
   not going spend all my time critiquing aspects of the animation. What
   I personally enjoyed most about the work is its background music.
   It’s not exactly the center piece of the video, but it’s a neat
   addition that I feel most animations don’t have. After that, I enjoy
   the animation as it’s similar to what we see in the show as well as
   it’s more smooth than most fan animations I’ve seen. The voice acting
   seems to be neither a strength nor a weakness, though I find its
   KP-centered casting to be a little egocentric (and boring). It also
   feels a bit bogged down by opening and closing title sequences, which
   make up 3 minutes in ratio to the 8 minutes of story. The story
   itself is in 3 acts. The opener provides context for KP’s obsession
   with Discord, the middle explores Discord’s insecurities as well as
   confirms KP’s headcanon about Discord via a vague backstory, and the
   final act is where KP finally approaches and comforts Discord. Yeah.
   While it definitely is about Discord, it’s entirely constructed and
   viewed from KP’s perspective, but then this is KP’s channel, so I
   guess that’s what I signed up for.

   Apart from all the KP propaganda, the big idea of the animation is
   that Discord is a “complex” character, and that his actions reflect
   underlying motivations and desires, similar to that of other ponies.
   While not stated explicitly, this theme is derived from the literary
   devices in the story, specifically its use of trope, emotional
   portrayal, and backstory. To more fully explore this, I present to
   you a formula to create a complex character. It is as follows:

     - Step 1: Present your character as nothing more than a standard
       trope (maybe a villain trope?).
     - Step 2: Give your character emotions that don’t fit that very
       trope (specifically sad emotions).
     - Step 3: Give your character a backstory to explain the emotions
       (tragic backstories are better).
     - Step 4: Profit (aka, bask in the glory of your new complex
       character).

   KP’s interpretation of Discord follows this formula to the word;
   Discord is framed as evil for the sake of evil by KP’s mother (or so
   I assume), Discord then shows emotions like nervousness, sadness,

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 34                      About Them Ponies               21 July 2016

   loneliness, and he also is also given that tragic backstory. Thus,
   Discord is a complex character.

   Except I disagree, because there’s more to a complex character than
   following such a formula. Mind you, it’s a good formula that MLP has
   put to good use over the years; characters like Babs Seed, Starlight
   Glimmer, Big Macintosh (in “Brotherhooves Social”), and others are
   built from their tropes, emotions, and backstories, but these
   attributes alone don’t give them their complexity. When Starlight
   Glimmer was given her backstory and its accompanying emotions in the
   season five finale, most people didn’t see this as strong character
   growth for her because it too followed this formula precisely.

   Why I object more strongly to KP’s backstory for Discord and not
   Starlight Glimmer’s reformation is because Discord already is a
   complex character, and impressively, without needing emotional
   development or a backstory. Discord himself is a trope taken directly
   from Q in Star Trek. Discord’s the masterful manipulator, the king of
   chaos, the spirit of disharmony. He’s mischievous for mischief’s
   sake, which alone doesn’t make him a complex character. What does is
   the fact that despite his villainous nature, he chooses to pursue
   friendship among the Mane 6, creating a contradiction between his
   nature and nurture. No other character is like this in the show;
   they’re either entirely villainous like Lord Tirek and Queen
   Chrysalis, or they’re temporarily antagonistic, like Trixie, Gilda,
   Diamond Tiara, and others more, not because they’re really against
   the Mane 6, but because of their (previously) unspoken backstories.
   As Discord falls into neither of these categories, his actions remain
   mostly unexplained. If Discord truly were evil, why bother making
   friends? And if he likes having friends, why bother being villainous?
   There must be a reason for Discord’s ways, as Discord is always one
   step ahead, yet we cannot fathom these reasons, making Discord an
   enigma yet to be cracked open.

   So I find KP’s animation strange, as it implies that Discord as
   presented in the show isn’t already a complex character, and it
   suggests that he would be more so if given generic emotions as well
   as a generic backstory. If KP really loves Discord because she sees
   his character as such, it is her every right to do so, but I find no
   joy in watching Discord become more pony like every episode. Let’s
   keep Discord Discord and see what kind of stories the writers can
   tell through such a crazy character.

   As always, feel free to leave comments below if you have something to
   say.







brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 34                      About Them Ponies               21 July 2016


                               References:
   1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z6U_EDyW_6w

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

