ATP 37                      About Them Ponies               31 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
           “Stranger than Fan Fiction” and Show Self-Awareness

   Season Six of My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic continues this
   week, and with it comes a new entry in the Daring Doo universe. As
   with all previous Daring Doo stories, the episode features a lot of
   Rainbow Dash, a little of Twilight Sparkle, and high adventure
   action sequencing. Alongside this dose of action comes the
   slice-of-life commentary we’re all familiar with, but for this
   week’s episode, the message and theme is very applicable (some might
   even say directed) to us, the fandom. While this week’s episode
   stands out as the most obvious example of show self-awareness, it is
   not the only time the show has utilized this tactic successfully. 

   The most consistent act of self-awareness that the show uses has to
   be Pinkie’s breaking the fourth wall antic. As Pinkie Pie’s
   character is built from numerous small gags, her speaking directly
   to the audience at times fits right in among her usual craziness.
   While breaking the fourth wall definitely creates an interaction
   between the show and its audience, it doesn’t add much to the
   series, as it’s only a brief acknowledgement, and one generic to any
   audience.

   A better example of MLP:FiM demonstrating self-awareness to the
   audience would be through its clever portrayal of its characters.
   Early in the show, specifically seasons one and two, the show was
   designed with a target audience of girls and their families. This
   meant that the majority of episodes were girly, but injected in
   between the girly-ness were some absolutely spot-on one liners,
   usually delivered by Twilight Sparkle. Statements like “All the
   ponies in this town are crazy!” (S1:E1) and “I don’t get it” (S1:E4)
   directly comment on the fact that the show’s going overboard in
   these moments, and to those families (and us bronies) watching, it’s
   great for the show to recognize that not everypony’s going to buy
   its agenda. Characters like Rainbow Dash and Scootaloo especially do
   this by loudly objecting when things get too cute. However, as the
   show becomes less girly due to its broader audience, lines and
   actions like these have been disappearing. Every once and a while
   there’s a comment like “Ponies just bursting into song in random
   places at the drop of a hat? Who does that?”, but these comments are
   becoming rarer and rarer. 

   However, “Stranger than Fan Fiction” takes home the prize for being
   the most self-aware, as having Rainbow Dash go to a Daring Doo
   convention directly mirrors us humans heading off to our various MLP
   conventions. While this is the principal similarity, there’s also
   many smaller details which really sell the comparison, from Twilight
   (a huge fan of Daring Do) not being able to make it to the
   convention, to the assortment of convention goers, to the angry
   looking drink vendors (they do exist at BronyCon by the way). All of

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 37                      About Them Ponies               31 July 2016

   these details have been thoughtfully included, and for those who
   have been to pony conventions, it’s amazing to see just how many
   similarities the show staff managed to put in. 

   The best part though is that the story told through the Daring Doo
   convention remains one that we’d expect from MLP. It’s not a catered
   episode like “Slice of Life” which only fans of the background
   ponies will appreciate, it’s clever world building around what we
   already know about Daring Do. The episode spends only two minutes
   showcasing convention bonding, and then the introduction of its
   conflict broadens the episode to be about disagreements between
   friends over something they are passionate about. This subject is
   something everyone in the fan base can relate to, not just in terms
   of differing opinions of MLP, but differing opinions about anything,
   be it other TV shows, novels, movies, or music. Even the emphasis on
   the convention is removed, as the story quickly collapses into a
   villainous heist and Daring Doo adventure (trust me, no MLP
   convention goer plans on being kidnapped by Queen Chrysalis).  So
   while the references to our own fandom are obvious, the episode
   doesn’t depend on them in order to be fun and make sense.

   This is completely opposite of other approaches we’ve seen in
   attempt to acknowledge the fan community within the show.
   Specifically, episode 100 was written in honor of the fandom, and to
   celebrate, the episode was nothing but background ponies doing all
   kinds of crazy stunts. While this pleased many in the fandom, that
   episode didn’t have the usual charm most episodes strive for, and as
   a result many fans backlashed against what was supposed to be
   something in good fun. In any case, episodes that go overboard end
   up being less self-aware and more direct pandering. While a little
   pandering can be fun, if there’s too much the show loses all meaning
   in favor of mere references to it.

   But a show with an appropriate amount of awareness of its position
   within both its fandom and society is a show that’s in good hands.
   It allows for us to connect with the show, and for the show to
   connect back with us, and through that interdependent relationship
   MLP:FiM remains a great experience to be had by all. Here’s to a
   great rest of season six!

   But what do you think about MLP and how the show sends us a few
   winks every once and a while? Drop me a comment below; as always
   I’ll be responding to them by the end of Thursday!

   







brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

