ATP 31                      About Them Ponies                7 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                         The Brony Documentaries

   Watching a show about colorful ponies was something my friends alone
   convinced me to do. After all, watching a show is not much of a
   commitment for people who like television; there are many I know who
   visit Netflix daily and watch entire seasons of shows when they find
   the time. But to join a fandom? That is, to go beyond just watching a
   show, throwing one’s self full speed into the madness and insanity of
   the fanatic domain. That is something different, and if weren’t for
   “Bronies: The extremely unexpected adult fans of My Little Pony,” I
   probably wouldn’t have known about the fandom, yet alone joined it.

   For these reasons, I tend to think very fondly of the former as well
   as “A Brony Tale,” yet there’s more to it than just nostalgia. Both
   of the documentaries have a similar objective: to showcase the show
   and its fandom in the best light possible. They both begin in the
   confused muddle of those first introduced to the show, the whole
   “there’s people who actually LIKE this show? They must be whacked!”
   mentality. From here, they elaborate on the origins of the show and
   fandom, and once this foundation is solidified, they move into
   individual narratives of people and groups in the fandom. As with all
   documentaries, these stories aren’t the complete picture of what the
   fandom is; rather they’re a sample intended to represent the fandom
   experience as a whole, or at least what the documentary creators
   believe the fandom experience to be.  Interestingly enough, both
   ultimately land in the same place — at Brony conventions — and both
   shout a similar message — it’s just a show that we love.

   This message, along with other themes from the documentaries like
   “love and tolerate,” paints a picture of the fandom similar to how
   Equestria is depicted within Friendship is magic. It shows the more
   crazy Pinkie Pies of the fandom, and it shows the more chill personas
   like Rainbow Dash. It showcases the creatives like Rarity, and the
   hard work of those like Applejack. Just like the show is light
   hearted and funny, so is the tone of the documentary. Above all, it
   shows the kindness of the fandom and its genuine appreciation for
   friendship, friendship, and friendship. The desired effect is that it
   makes those very aspects of the show become alive and real. For any
   fan (like myself) who appreciates those elements, the documentaries
   reflect all that we love about the show and project it right on to
   the fandom. To people who understand My Little Pony that way, the
   documentaries are something beautiful.

   The catch, of course, is that it’s just one way of interpreting the
   Brony fandom. Probably the largest single criticism about the
   documentaries is that they don’t even mention any negative aspects of
   the community. Whether or not every pony agrees that they’re truly
   negative (I am of the opinion that they are), it cannot be denied
   that show depreciative fan works, from clop to the .MOV series, are

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 31                      About Them Ponies                7 July 2016

   common and surprisingly popular. Even the very motto of the show,
   “Friendship is Magic,” isn’t upheld by fans at times, especially when
   it comes to discussing the show. All in all, it’s very difficult to
   tell whether the fandom truly is that loving and tolerating community
   it claims to be, or whether that phrase is a façade in its entirety.

   There’s always another perspective, always another story, and having
   been in the fandom long enough, it is obvious to me today that the
   fandom is not entirely made up of people purely inspired by ponies in
   the way I was. People enjoy the show for many reasons, as the show
   has all the aspects of any good show. Any given fan will enjoy the
   show and fandom for a different set of reasons, some because it’s
   funny, some because it’s bizarre, and some because it’s meaningful.
   This diversity is an important sign of a healthy and growing
   community, but as a result, it is likely (if not guaranteed) that the
   documentaries’ attempts to capture every fan’s experience will always
   fall short.

   What remains in these documentaries is a stereotype about bronies and
   brony culture. It’s not the only brony stereotype, as the “horse
   fucker” trope is also one such stereotype common on the internet, but
   it’s a much more positive one. To this day, there are still articles
   (like this one(*1)) that are all about fans who really discovered
   friendship through the show and the fandom. While such stories are
   not all encompassing, they do feel much more representative of the
   fandom than any of the dominant negative tropes, though the question
   remains: at large what is the fandom all about (if anything), and
   what sort of feeling emerges from the pony convention scene (arguably
   the largest shared fandom experience)? Is the community in real life
   like what is portrayed in the documentaries? To be honest, I don’t
   know, but I hope to find out … this weekend at BRONYCON!

   For the first time ever, I will miss a blog post in order to
   participate in this exciting event! Ever since watching “Bronies: The
   Extremely Unexpected Fans …” on July 28, 2014, I have wanted to
   attend an MLP convention and the opportunity has finally come. It’s
   BronyCon or bust, baby, BronyCon or bust!

   (I’m seriously hoping my bus schedule gets me there by Friday
   evening; I’m WAY too hyped for this)












brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 31                      About Them Ponies                7 July 2016


                               References:
   1. http://www.cityweekly.net/utah/state-of-brony/Content?oid=3336137

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

