ATP 35                      About Them Ponies               24 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
             Fandom Chaos: Behold the EQD Nightly Discussion

   As hopefully everypony knows, Equestria Daily
   (www.equestriadaily.com) is pretty much the single largest MLP
   related website in existence. As its name implies, the people who run
   the website post fan content and news all day every day, from fan art
   to music to comics to animation to analysis to everything else. But
   twice a day, there comes a post where instead of having the usual
   content, there’s merely an image with a short caption and a prompt to
   discuss whatever. Below that lies the usual Disqus thread, but
   instead of a dozen or so comments, there are thousands.

   This is the EQD Nightly Discussion (or morning discussion, which is
   similar to the ND but during a different time slot and usually
   lasting well into the day), a very interesting ever-evolving
   subculture of the MLP fandom. You’d expect from the post title
   “Nightly Discussion” and the website “Equestria Daily” that the place
   is full of chatter about ponies and the fandom, but you couldn’t be
   more mistaken. The place is wild, full of comments about politics or
   video games or news or weird youTube videos or other TV shows other
   than FiM or anything really. If there’s an opinion to be had about
   anything, it’s probably already been shouted somewhere in the
   thousands upon thousands of comments vying for some pony’s attention.

   This of course is why I consider the ND to be the fandom’s center of
   all chaos. While places like the /mlp/ board on 4chan and other
   forums can be chaotic in nature, they at least support basic
   organization of comments into threads. The only way the ND is sorted
   is by time; comments exist in a single thread associated with the day
   (e.g. ND#666 on March 28, 2016), and from there it is only possible
   to view them by ‘newest’, ‘oldest’, or ‘best’. Unless one is willing
   to scroll through an endless page, there’s no built in way to stay on
   track of what’s going on. Either you were there when something was
   said, or you’ll never know about it. Thus the ND fits a different
   purpose than other MLP forums; it is a single moment where any fan
   can engage with other fans in real time. In some sense, it’s more
   similar to a forum in real life than your typical internet messaging
   board, functioning as a place to chatter knowing that it will all be
   buried by other comments within five minutes.

   The question which then comes to mind is why is the ND so chaotic,
   though I think the chaos is more a result of gathering so many people
   together. After all, a public school classroom with no more than 24
   students will become very loud and crazy if the students are left to
   chat unmoderated, as multiple conversations will break out. The
   problem online becomes even worse as the ability to post anything
   instantly allows people to interrupt each other; after all, there’s
   no need to wait and listen to others if you just want to talk
   non-stop. Many people do this sort of thing on the ND, and it’s

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 35                      About Them Ponies               24 July 2016

   obvious because such people never take the time to respond to other’s
   comments. There’s nothing intrinsically wrong with this, but if one
   is only going to post and never reply, one fails to talk with others
   and instead only talks at them.

   Assuming the goal is to talk with others, the Nightly Discussion does
   allow this, although one must learn to tell the different between
   comments which are open to discussion and comments which are nothing
   more than shouting. The easiest way to find those who actually do
   want to engage is to look for people’s greeting, that is any comment
   that says “Hello”, “What’s up” or as I like write, “Greetings from
   beyond.” If you respond to one of these (or all of them) with a
   friendly “hi” of your own, it’s likely they will join you in
   conversation, although it isn’t guaranteed. In time one discovers who
   is there to chat and who is there to post whatever, and then
   navigating the ND is fairly straight forward.

   What’s most intriguing is watching the ND evolve and change, not only
   as the new join and the old leave, but also how it responds to
   inevitable drama, from within the fandom and the ND itself. When bad
   news comes knocking, you see people who typically act one way act
   entirely different, rallying for a person or a cause you wouldn’t
   have expected. The crap serves as a wakeup call of sorts, and you
   actually can see the humanity in people’s posts where before all that
   was visible was internet troll. Even without the drama of big events,
   one can see changes in people’s behavior across discussions from
   nothing more than their comments, and that’s something I never would
   have expected to see from mere text alone. To me this demonstrates
   that the Nightly Discussion is a community, and not just a bunch of
   random commenters. It may be a loud and obnoxious community which
   doesn’t appear to care for itself at times, but that doesn’t stop the
   place from also being sincere and supportive.

   In any case, there’s no other place where you’ll find genuine
   discussions about MLP and Satanism in the same night. As always, feel
   free to drop a comment if you want; I’ll forgive all craziness in
   them in honor of the insanity that is the Nightly Discussion.

   This post is in memory of Beebarb, a moderator of the ND who passed
   away recently. Where ever you are friend, know that we miss you.












brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

