ATP 32                      About Them Ponies               14 July 2016


                            About Them Ponies
       Response to After the fact: LIVE! “Putting Your Hoof Down”

   In an effort to put my essays on Sundays and my responses on
   Thursdays, I’ve decided to put off my reflection of BronyCON till
   this Sunday. For today, I want to consider just one of the many
   panels I went to, notably Silver Quill’s “After the Fact: LIVE”
   panel. With Silver Quill being today’s king of the analysis community
   and being given a panel entirely to himself, I knew I was in for one
   heck of a show.

   And a show it was! Throughout his online reviews, Silver Quill has
   always juxtaposed his jokes and humor alongside his insightful
   commentary, so it was no surprise that he warmed up the audience by
   cracking jokes and goofing off in general much to the delight of his
   fans (I personally don’t see the comparison between Silver and
   Hitler, but the joke was so out there that I couldn’t help laughing).
   Soon he began his presentation by talking about Fluttershy’s
   relationship with her animals, her experiences within Ponyville, her
   confrontation between her friends and ultimately Iron Will, all the
   while pausing the clips at the right moment for us to all laugh at
   the episode’s jokes. From the discussion of these events, Silver made
   very clear and concise arguments about the context of humor, the
   assumption of villainy, and taking advantage of others as depicted in
   the episode. It’s been a while since the panel, so I may have
   forgotten the nuances of Silver’s argument, but the overall
   conclusion was that while the episode was a great concept, it made
   quite a few blunders, keeping it from being any more than okay. While
   I agree with Silver’s individual arguments, I disagree with his
   conclusion.

   The humor in the opening appears to be typical Fluttershy antics, but
   as Silver Quill points out, it’s not funny here because of the
   context. I as well don’t find Fluttershy abuse funny, but as this
   episode is built from the premise that Fluttershy needs to be more
   assertive, I don’t think that the opening is really meant to be
   funny. While most ‘teasers’ (If I remember correctly from Larson’s
   panel, this is the name for the clip before the intro) try to be
   amusing, there’s no rule that says they have to be, though the
   episodes should at large strive to be funny. For me the humor in this
   episode comes from Iron Will, a character who simultaneously switches
   between being hyper masculine and gentleman like. This juxtaposition
   of identities is not very common, so to see a character who looks
   like a monster act as counselor is amusing.

   This leads right into Silver’s point that Iron Will is framed by the
   writers as a villain without providing a reason. However, Silver’s
   initial evidence for this contention was Pinkie’s line “that monster”
   which of course is immediately followed by Fluttershy’s “[He’s] not a
   monster; he’s a Minotaur.” I wish Silver commented more on

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 32                      About Them Ponies               14 July 2016

   Fluttershy’s line here, as it calls into question everything that we
   (not the writers) are assuming about Iron Will. For every
   monster-like action, Iron Will also performs a gentleman-like action,
   and I think this was intentional. It makes Iron’s character
   ambivalent, and at no point would I say that he’s a villain. Like
   Queen Elsa from Frozen, not every story needs a villain to have a
   conflict, and I find this aspect of the episode enjoyable, as it’s
   true to the theme of tolerance as seen elsewhere in the show. In
   fact, it’s hard to argue that Iron will is even an antagonist as it’s
   not Iron Will that Fluttershy is in conflict with, but rather her own
   self.

   Despite the fact that Fluttershy does no harm, she is mistreated
   during the first half of the episode, thus prompting her to wrestle
   with the nature of her kindness. This mistreatment was one of
   Silver’s most emphasized points during the panel, and he asks us: why
   do the other ponies take advantage of Fluttershy, why do Pinkie Pie
   and Rarity’s methods of assertiveness take advantages of others, and
   why does Fluttershy take advantage of Iron Will’s 100% satisfaction
   guaranteed policy? These are all excellent questions that Silver
   Quill brought up, and the show doesn’t answer them, but neither does
   real life. Everypony knows people commit less than honorable actions
   in the real world, from obvious crimes like murder and theft to more
   subconscious ones like racism and sexism. I don’t know why people do
   these things, and I don’t think Silver Quill does either. What we
   both know is that they happen in the real world, thus it shouldn’t be
   a surprise when they slip into Equestria. In some sense, this is what
   the entire episode is about as Fluttershy wrestles with the rudeness
   of others. Neither pure kindness nor pure self-interest works out
   well for her, and in the end it is a compromise of the two that’s
   portrayed as successful. While the episode doesn’t answer that
   philosophical conundrum, it does explore the issue, and that
   exploration is why I still look favorably on this episode.

   Thanks for the awesome panel Silver! Wish I had time to talk to you
   afterwards; perhaps we will meet again someday.
















brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

