ATP 45                      About Them Ponies             28 August 2016


                            About Them Ponies
   “Dungeons and Discords” and the challenge of having diverse friends

   As the first two thirds of season six ends, the legendary Discord has
   finally gotten to make an appearance in full. With season five
   devoting two entire episodes to developing Discord’s character,
   Discord is no longer merely a guest, but a member of the show’s
   extended cast much like Spike, the Apple Family, and the Princesses
   (I consider the CMC to be primary, although Twilight Sparkle and the
   mane 6 are the most primary). However, this also means that the
   lingering question of “Keep Calm and Flutter On” must finally be
   answered: How the heck are the protagonists actually going to be
   friends with the spirit of disharmony?

   In prior seasons of MLP:FiM, the show hasn’t done a good job of
   answering this question, and not just with characters like Discord.
   Every time a new character is introduced, the show in its glorious
   mantra of “Friendship is Magic” has the protagonists treat that
   character as a friend. Season five especially introduced us to a
   variety of new ‘friends,’ like Starlight Glimmer, Trouble Shoes,
   Coloratura, Moondancer, various griffons, the entire Pie family, and
   the yaks (not to mention the reformation of Diamond Tiara and Silver
   Spoon, so they too are new friends). Season 6 adds even more to this
   list, and characters like Thorax definitely demonstrate the diversity
   of the characters collectively called “friends.” On one hoof, such a
   diverse group speaks immensely about how good natured the world of
   Equestria is; with so many species becoming friends so easily, it
   would appear that every living organism that desired friendship has
   ample opportunity to do so. But on the other hoof, the group is so
   large and inclusive that it warrants the question of whether or not
   the protagonists actually mean the gesture, and whether they are
   blindly naming every creature they meet a friend.

   However, it’s also important to note that the friendship of the Mane
   6 itself was a blind relationship at one point. Back in “Friendship
   is Magic (parts 1 + 2),” Twilight didn’t really want to be friends
   with any pony, but out of necessity, the six came together to stop
   Nightmare Moon. They didn’t stop to think about whether their
   personalities fit well; they just became friends and had to deal with
   the fact afterward. This is also why the Mane 6 themselves are fairly
   diverse; among the six of them there’s the introvert, the extrovert,
   the dependable, the nerd, the jock, the tomboy, the fashionista, the
   partier, the leader, the kind soul you never want to upset, the hard
   working, and the artist. With such a diverse group of ponies, it
   would seem improbable that they could stay friends in this
   blind-to-differences mentality. But to MLP:FiM’s credit they don’t,
   and by episode 8, AJ and Rarity are already getting on each other’s
   nerves due to different personalities. Pretty much the entire
   conflict of “Look before you sleep” is nothing other than a conflict
   of preferences. It is in this episode that the friendship between

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 45                      About Them Ponies             28 August 2016

   Rarity and AJ really takes hold, as they learn to appreciate (and
   even celebrate each other’s differences).

   Likewise is the conflict of “Dungeons and Discords.” Once again, we
   have a trio stuck in Twilight’s home for the evening with no other
   purpose than to try to have an enjoyable night. Also similar is that
   Discord has a quite different idea of fun than Spike and Big Mac, so
   in many ways, “Dungeons and Discords” is the successor of “Look
   before you sleep.” And just like its predecessor, the strain caused
   by the diversity of the personalities is what drives the episode.

   Discord is one of the most magically powerful beings in all of
   Equestria. As a result, he need not do anything he doesn’t want to
   do, and can spend all of his time doing whatever mischief he desires.
   Spike and Big Mac are the hard workers. They spend most of their time
   laboring for the sake of their friends and family, and when given a
   little time off, all they want is to explore their own interactive
   fantasy.  Normally, two such groups would probably not interact, but
   in the spirit of finding friendship, they try to get along, and they
   fail.  But after several tries, they all find a way to enjoy
   themselves the way each wants to. Discord gets to show off his
   magical prowess by running the Ogre and Oubliettes game, and Spike
   and Big Mac still get to enjoy their fantasy.

   The theme I think is obvious: the episode demonstrates how embracing
   diversity can be difficult, but will always be rewarding in the end. 
   Packaged along with it though is this idea that while friendship may
   begin blindly (i.e. without having any significant connection to the
   figure), it blooms when the parties take the time to create a shared
   experience that they both enjoy. After all, Spike and Big Mac may
   “technically” have been friends with Discord before their guy’s
   night, but there’s no doubt that their friendship was strengthened
   because of it. It also showcases what I hope to see more of with
   other characters in the show; getting to see them interact with
   others and actually have experiences that define their friendship,
   aside from the event that initially unites them.

   All in all, every character should really spend more time hanging out
   in Twilight’s home. Good times happen there.

   Let me know what you thought of the episode! I’ll be responding to
   them on Wednesday as I have more open free time on that date.










brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

