ATP 47                      About Them Ponies           5 September 2016


                            About Them Ponies
              “Buckball Season” and the pacing of episodes

   In every season of MLP, there are episodes that the fandom cries “The
   episode should have been longer” or more specifically, “It was
   wrapped up too quickly.” It’s a common problem, and many cite
   different reasons for why the phenomenon occurs, saying either that
   the writing is no good (always the best scape goat reason), or that
   it’s too difficult to fit everything into 23 minutes. While the
   latter definitely appears to be true, I’d like to point out that for
   many episodes, 23 minutes is plenty; there’s only a handful of
   episodes that appear to need more than this limit. The episodes that
   tend to feel rushed also happen to be the episodes that take on the
   most intricate conflicts. Examples of this include “Magical Mystery
   Cure”, “Do Princesses Dream of Magic Sheep?”, and the late “The Times
   They Are a Changeling.” However, given any number of episodes and a
   method of assigning values to how complex their plots are, it’s
   mathematical proven that some will have more complicated narratives
   (a.ka. higher valued numbers) and some will have less complicated
   narratives (lower valued). With all episodes getting the same
   development time, some will always be more rushed than others because
   their more complex stories have to be compressed to the mold.

   However, due to the same reasoning, there also must be episodes that
   have simpler conflicts that will be stretched to fit the 23 minutes,
   and I believe “Buckball Season” to be an example of this. At first
   glance, there doesn’t appear to be anything stretched within the
   episode, as the episode’s constantly moving forward and introducing
   new material, but actually breaking down the episode into pieces
   yields a better idea of what’s going on.

     - 0:00 – Episode begins
     - 1:16 – Opening Theme
     - 1:52 – Act I begins: Buckball tryouts
     - 7:55 – Act II begins: Fluttershy + Pinkie on the team and
       training
     - 12:26 – Fluttershy + Pinkie afraid of letting ponies down;
       Ponyville becomes hyped
     - 13:17 – Act III begins
     - 14:32 – Fluttershy + Pinkie Pie become incredibly upset
     - 16:10 – Applejack + Rainbow console Fluttershy and Pinkie
     - 19:03 – Applejack + Rainbow tell Fluttershy and Pinkie just to
       have fun
     - 20:05 – Applejack + Rainbow retell Fluttershy and Pinkie to have
       fun during game
     - 21:34 – Closing theme
     - 22:04 – End




brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 47                      About Them Ponies           5 September 2016

   The structure for every MLP episode is pretty much the same,
   featuring a teaser, and three acts all separated by commercial breaks
   (I learned this from the M. A. Larson panel at BronyCON this year).
   From this chart we can see that Act III is 8:17 in length in
   comparison to Acts I and II which are only 6:03 and 5:22
   respectively, thus the episode allocates more time to the climax and
   resolution than to any other part of the episode. I’ve also included
   a few of the pivotal moments of the episode’s conflict, mostly
   moments when the two Mane6 pairs confront or talk to each other, to
   visualize how this time is actually spent.

   Thus, we can see that the resolution of the conflict happens in three
   different places: first when Applejack and Rainbow Dash console
   Pinkie and Fluttershy on the train, then more conclusively when they
   tell Pinkie and Flutters that they should compete, but only for the
   fun of it, which is then reaffirmed during the actual game a few
   minutes later.  The effect of this is that following Fluttershy and
   Pinkie Pie’s outburst at 14:32, the tension is always easing off, as
   the outburst is very much the emotional climax of the episode. While
   the moment at 19:03 is much more conclusive of the episode at large,
   that scene does not carry the same weight as the outburst and
   consolation three minutes earlier.

   This makes the location of the climax of the episode ambiguous,
   though everything following 14:32 is less intense (when was the last
   time we saw Fluttershy that upset?). In any case, having 8 minutes 17
   seconds in Act III to wrap up the episode is a lot more time than the
   infamous 23 seconds in which “Do Princess Dream of Magic Sheep” is
   concluded. However, I don’t know if having so much time has made
   “Buckball Season” a better episode. Fluttershy’s outburst at 14:32
   leaves 34% of the episode to do nothing but die down emotionally, and
   while delivering the message of “don’t stress; just enjoy the game”
   is important, I don’t think it needs to be rehashed three different
   times within the conclusion.

   These attributes make the climax (wherever it is) less cathartic,
   which somewhat matches real life as very rarely do conflicts arrive
   and dissipate in a single moment. Giving Fluttershy and Pinkie a
   little time to calm down after the outburst makes sense, as does
   helping them calm down during the game, but portraying these actions
   doesn’t add anything to the story at the cost of taking time away
   from other scenes. This could be attractive to some people, but for
   me, I find that it stretches the episode’s length beyond what it
   needs to be.

   Any thoughts any pony? I’ll hopefully be writing responses on
   Wednesday, though I was a day late with this post.





brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

