ATP 48                      About Them Ponies          11 September 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                     “The Fault in our Cutie Marks” 
              and Cherry-Picking the Equestrian Story Space

   With the first CMC episode of the season (“On your Marks”), the much
   anticipated future of the Cutie Mark Crusaders was explored, and
   after a lot of self-reflection among themselves, the three set out on
   their new destiny: to help others with their cutie mark (or
   identity/purpose) related problems. As some have probably observed,
   this new occupation is not un-similar to the Mane6’s preoccupation
   with the Cutie Map; both serve as a long term, never ending mission
   to better the world of Equestria. Likewise, the Cutie Mark Crusaders’
   newly found purpose comes with similar problems: it threatens to make
   Crusader episodes more about external relations rather than their
   internal friendship (which is not necessarily a problem, but it’s a
   completely different premise than earlier Crusader episodes), and it
   threatens to make CMC episodes centered on only one kind of story,
   repeated again and again every time they meet a new character (all
   this is elaborated in my earlier post: “On Your Marks” and the future
   of the CMC(*1)).

   To their credit (because the writers will always surprise us), the
   writers have defied my predictions by breaking away from the very
   mold they set up in that episode, not by ignoring or discrediting the
   earlier work, but by having the latest episode use this fact to build
   a different story. When “The Fault in our Cutie Marks” begins, it is
   in the middle of them actively resolving a cutie mark problem, just
   like what they set out to do in “On Your Marks.” Thus continuity has
   been preserved, but also note that this episode isn’t about them
   solving Petunia‘s problem, nor is it about them solving Blue Note’s.
   Rather the episode references them as evidence that the Crusaders are
   doing their job others without unnecessarily dragging us through two
   stories.

   What’s happening here is that the writers are cherry-picking stories
   from the Equestrian story space. In less esoteric words, the writers
   here are considering all the possible events that could happen in
   Equestria, all the possible stories that they could tell, and instead
   of telling only immediate stories, they look at the timeline and tell
   only the most crucial/interesting/wonderful of stories on it (or so
   we hope). This is a technique that’s been used before, like when the
   show glossed over the backstory behind Rarity opening her boutique in
   Canterlot, but in that case, a lot of potential conflict and
   narrative was omitted to the show’s loss. Here, the omitted stories
   were most likely ones akin to Tender Taps and Trouble Shoes, which
   we’ve already seen and which the show don’t need to rehash.

   One of the benefits of cherry picking a story this way is that it
   creates necessary lore, and that lore enriches the show as a whole.
   Because the story builds from the CMC being “world famous” and

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 48                      About Them Ponies          11 September 2016

   helping lots of other ponies, the story has punched open a hole which
   must be filled by something, either speculation or more story. This
   is different from the introduction of new characters or places,
   because unlike new content which doesn’t necessarily need to be
   explored or expanded, a hole in the timeline of our protagonists
   does, as our imagination must bridge the gap with something to
   comprehend the rest of the episode. That bridge is lore, speculation,
   potential fanfiction as Dr. Wolf usually frames it, or if you’re
   really crazy like Sethisto(*2) , it can be

    |
    |  “that one time when Rainbow Dash wanted to be festive for a
    |  Hearths Warming Eve party, without realizing that socks were in
    |  this year, and Rarity invited all the major fashion ponies who
    |  wouldn't leave her alone about how trendy and amazing she
    |  looked.”
    |

   However, the other important aspect of a cherry-picked story is that
   it better be a cherry; if the writers are going to skip over other
   conflicts in favor of this one, the story that’s ultimately presented
   should be well worth the cost of stories no longer possible due to it
   (aka, if you’re going to destroy Golden Oaks Library, it better be
   for a good reason). As I personally did not need another “let’s solve
   a pony’s cutie mark problems” story, the cost was worth it, though in
   the end we still get the CMC-must-help-others-because-destiny complex
   driving the conflict.

   In the future, I think it would be neat if the CMC stories picked
   from the cherry tree were ones not about cutie mark problems, as not
   every episode needs to be directly tied to the character’s purpose in
   life. By their cutie marks, we know that Applejack bucks apples,
   Twilight studies magic, and Fluttershy takes care of animals, but
   their episodes don’t revolve entirely around this one facet of them.
   Rather, much of this behavior serves as setup or side show rather
   than focus. In the same way, I see the CMC solving cutie mark
   problems, short and sweet like they did in this week’s episode’s
   exposition, only to be drawn in by a larger conflict elsewhere.

   Anyhow, my appetite is whet for another CMC episode.

   +1 for that pirate joke at the beginning. It’s so subtle that I had
   to pause the tape in order to get it.

   +100 CLARINETS ARE NOW CANON!







brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 48                      About Them Ponies          11 September 2016


                               References:
   1. http://aboutthemponies.tumblr.com/post/142586893480/on-your-marks-
      and-the-future-of-the-cmc
   2. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2015/12/100-word-flash-fic-event-rem
      ember-that.html














































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

