ATP 4                       About Them Ponies               3 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
“The Gift of The Maud Pie” and the use of static and dynamic characters.

   Maud Pie. Or as ABagOVicodin writes over on Equestria Daily, “best
   secondary character.” Or as I would personally describe her,
   “unchanging.” She’s one of the character from this show that I hope
   you like because as many fans love her to death, you can be quite
   sure we will always be seeing more of her in episodes. Like the
   latest one.

   I’d be lying if I were to say I’ve always been a fan of Maud Pie. On
   the first viewing of her season four episode, I wasn’t quite sure
   what to think of her. Here is a character, who quite literally
   expresses the same emotions as a slab of sandstone. On the other
   hand, I’d be lying if I were to say that I haven’t enjoyed Maud Pie’s
   obsession with geology. If you enjoy this part of her personality, or
   simply the fact that she’s so different from all the other characters
   in the show, it’s good news that she remains as always unchanging.
   But when our static character Maud Pie is put against the dynamic
   Pinkie and Rarity, her unchanging nature not only functions as a
   humor device, but rather becomes critically important towards the
   development of the story.

   Pinkie Pie and Rarity are both protagonists of the show. That is to
   say, the show’s job is to take these characters and do something with
   them other than stick them in the background. Hopefully, they’ll make
   us laugh. Hopefully, they’ll tell an amazing story. In either case,
   they’re meant to change, to be dynamic, and by the episode’s end,
   something better have happened to develop these characters. With this
   episode starting with Pinkie Pie acting very desperate to give her
   sister the ultimate gift, leading to her acquiring that gift but at
   great personal cost, and ending with Pinkie empty hooved, Pinkie got
   to experience quite the ride, along with Rarity who was alongside her
   every step of the way. But these two can only get this development
   because Maud Pie remains static and less developed in this episode.

   Often times (like in last week’s episode) we see just the opposite
   happen. A brand new character is introduced who receives a lot of
   development only to never be seen again, leaving the main cast
   underdeveloped for that episode. I always find these types of
   episodes a little disappointing, as an bored looking mane 6 adds
   nothing to the series. But with a well-established static character
   serving as a contrast to our heroines, the episode strikes gold, as I
   feel this one did.

   That isn’t to say that our static side characters shouldn’t get
   development or need to be boring. Maud Pie definitely isn’t boring,
   and every line she gets only adds to her development as a character.
   She simply isn’t the primary focus, but I think that’s okay. Looking
   back at season 5, many of the episodes that feature new characters,

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 4                       About Them Ponies               3 April 2016

   but when the plot focused on them, i.e. made them dynamic characters,
   the episodes failed to connect back to the series as a whole (like
   Appleoosa’s Most Wanted). To contrast season 1 featured many static
   characters like Trixie and Gilda, but that didn’t prevent the fandom
   from enjoying on to them.

   Anyways, what are your thoughts on the use of static characters in
   FiM? Make sure to drop a comment below, and I’ll be responding and
   sharing your thoughts on this coming Thursday (most likely; I still
   need to figure out my routine for this tumblr).










































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

