ATP 42                      About Them Ponies             18 August 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                        Comments from the forums:
              “28 Pranks Later” (& Mysterious Mare Do Well)

   And now, fillies and gentlecolts, it’s time we all address the
   elephant in the room when it comes to discussing this week’s episode.

   Bumblebee(*1) writes:

    |
    |  Haven't seen the episode admittedly, but after reading everything
    |  that happened, it can be summed up with "WE SERIOUSLY REDID THE
    |  FUCKING MYSTERIOUS MARE DO WELL AGAIN"
    |
    |  Like it seemed like the only improvements I heard was that at
    |  least Pinkie was great and that they actually tried talking to
    |  her this time....
    |
    |  In the latter's case, it seems like they didn't realize that
    |  wasn't the only problem with MMDW. Between Newbie Dash and this,
    |  it seems the writers really want me to hate this season
    |

   Many people, myself included, have noticed the similarities between
   this week’s episode and “The Mysterious Mare do Well.” When reading
   through the forum thread, you can’t go far before someone pipes in
   that “This episode is the Mysterious Mare Do Well 2.0” or
   alternatively “This episode isn’t another Mysterious Mare Do Well,
   but an improvement.” Nowhere do you find any pony who thinks that
   “The Mysterious Mare Do Well” might actually be a good episode, which
   means the episode’s negative reputation is never disputed.

   This is problematic, because not only is it impossible to conclude
   that the episode is terrible without any evidence or reasoning (which
   the majority have somehow forgotten to include altogether), but
   people like myself actually enjoy the episode and think that it’s a
   good one. Mind you, I too must provide my reasoning, so here’s why I
   find the MMDW to be quite enjoyable.

   The episode begins with Rainbow Dash stroking her ego a little, but
   also earnestly saving others from danger when something goes awry.
   When she gains even more attention for her heroism, she doesn’t soak
   up this attention immediately, but stays humble, saying she was just
   in the right spot at the right time. Thus, the audience knows that
   while she might be a little egotistical at times, at heart she’s
   isn’t, it’s a performance that she takes on (and as Twilight points
   out, Dash is pretty awesome at the end of the day). This gives
   Rainbow’s character an enjoyable contrast: she both loves the
   performance but also doesn’t depend upon it; she’s just out there to
   help other ponies.

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 42                      About Them Ponies             18 August 2016

   However, later on Rainbow becomes too swept away with the act and
   starts caring less about the actual heroism and more about the fame.
   This is a reasonable mistake, as many of us go through a fame or
   popularity obsession, which makes the conflict relatable. The rest of
   the Mane 6 try to help Rainbow get back on track, by giving her a
   role model to look up to, the Mysterious Mare Do Well. If Rainbow
   Dash remembered her original intentions, she would have no problem
   with this; after all initially she was just saving others to help
   out.

   Instead, Rainbow Dash’s hunger for fame brings out the worst in her
   (as it can for celebrities in real life), and she takes it out on the
   Mysterious Mare Do Well. Only after jumping on her and realizing Mare
   Do Well is her friends in disguise does Rainbow Dash finally realize
   her misplaced motivation was the culprit. This is a really neat twist
   which makes it so that Rainbow Dash essentially teaches herself the
   lesson (the rest of the Mane 6 only catalyzed the reaction). Thus,
   “The Mysterious Mare Do Well” as a whole provides a fascinating look
   on Rainbow Dash’s psyche as well as the dangers of pursuing fame, and
   I see no reason why to discount it as an enjoyable episode.

   Of course, there are a few who provide arguments for why they find
   “The Mysterious Mare-do-well bad episode.

   AlexanderThrond(*2) writes:

    |
    |  What made the hypocrisy in "Mare-Do-Well" a problem was that
    |  Dash's friends seemed to relish in their own accomplishments just
    |  as much as Dash had in hers, and that the episode was largely
    |  dedicated to humiliating Dash. "28 Pranks Later" is much more
    |  good-natured, and more importantly, the whole zombie thing was
    |  only meant to teach a lesson, and only used as a seeming last
    |  resort. Too bad it was predictable.
    |

   I want to thank Alexander here for providing his reasons, though I
   disagree with his condemnation of the Mysterious Mare Do Well on the
   basis of hypocrisy. I do not think the Mane 6 are ‘relishing in their
   own accomplishments’ in this scene. It’s true that they are
   technically praising themselves, but what they’re really trying to do
   is convince Dash that heroism need not be egoism, and they do this by
   focusing their attention on the Mysterious Mare Do Well, who’s
   selfless (as a heroic performance anyways). They only praise Mare Do
   Well to sell the act, and not because they wanted to be the focus of
   praise (which is was what Dash exclusively did).

   I also disagree that the episode was dedicated to humiliating Dash;
   the only reason she ended up “humiliated” was due to her own actions,
   and as the Mane 6 immediately forgave her afterwards, I hardly think
   it would leave a lasting effect on Dash (Rainbow doesn’t seem like

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 42                      About Them Ponies             18 August 2016

   the kind of girl to hold a grudge, unless it’s about winning some
   sporting event).

   But getting back to the episode at hand, I fully agree with Alexander
   here. There can be no doubt of intention in this later episode,
   though I’d also say the same for “the Mysterious Mare Do Well.” The
   zombies are predictable, but again, if you’re going to rewatch
   episodes many times like I do, predictability isn’t much of an issue
   (it is, however, a lot of fun to see zombie ponies).

   Justin_Case001(*3) writes:

    |
    |  …I'd like to linger for a moment on this idea of them focusing on
    |  the wrong things.  I'd like to see this show explore bigger, more
    |  meaningful stories.  I completely understand that a central theme
    |  of the series is slice of life, everyday friendship lessons and
    |  I'm all for that, but even Faust's original vision was an even
    |  balance of slice of life and adventure.  Now, I'm not saying that
    |  every other episode needs to be some epic, huge-ass adventure. 
    |  (The Pony: An Unexpected Journey.  Although that could be good,
    |  too.)  No, I'm merely suggesting that they make more of an effort
    |  to explore and develop their careers, goals, etc.  So far this
    |  season, we should have had the Griffonstone friendship summit, a
    |  Flutteryshy performing/singing episode, and another 'bolt episode
    |  to show how Dashie's new career is taking shape.  Instead we get
    |  Daring Do Con (which wasn't too bad, though), boring soapbox
    |  racers, and dopey pranks. The show is literally bursting at the
    |  seams with enormous potential, but they just keep brushing aside
    |  and choosing rather bland, throwaway stories. That's how I see
    |  it, anyway…
    |

   I like this part of Justin’s comment (check out the link for the full
   thing), because it’s less small about small nitpick details and more
   about the larger picture as a whole. However, I do want to point out
   that in the last several seasons, the show’s shifted in a direction
   much like what Justin’s talking; episodes like “The Crystalling,” “On
   Your Marks,” “Gauntlet of Fire,” “No Second Prances,” “Newbie Dash,”
   “The Saddle Row Review,” “Flutter Brutter,” and “Spice Up Your Life”
   all are more adventure/career/development focused than normal slice
   of life, and they make up 3/5ths of the season thus far. Really,
   there haven’t been many light-hearted episodes focused on just the
   mane 6, and as they are what I enjoy most about the show, I’m quite
   happy with an episode that’s primarily focused on something less
   serious, like pranking.

   That said, I agree that among the more slice of life episodes, there
   could be a better focus. In episodes like “The Cart before the
   Ponies,” one wonders why the writers chose to tell such a
   straight-to-the-point story, as opposed to something with a little

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 42                      About Them Ponies             18 August 2016

   more pizazz. Like, why tell this story as opposed to something else?
   However, I don’t have this problem with “28 Pranks Later”  as all the
   pranks in this episode, especially the zombies, add a lot of fun to
   this episode, making it enjoyable even if the moral isn’t the most
   stellar.

   But let me flip this same criticism on the adventure/career episodes
   as well. Could they have a better focus? I know many in this fandom
   enjoyed “The Saddle Row Review,” but it’s mostly for the different
   style and humor (which was merely okay in my book). The narrative of
   the episode itself is kind of boring; the mane 6 go in, screw things
   up, and then immediately fix them without any real consequence, so
   despite this being a major land mark in Rarity’s career, it doesn’t
   really add anything thematically. There’s not really any conflict,
   and correspondingly there’s no lesson learned. For this reason, I
   don’t think the type of story (adventure, slice of life, career
   development) determines how good the episode is.



































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

ATP 42                      About Them Ponies             18 August 2016


                               References:
   1. https://mlpforums.com/topic/155662-s06e15-28-pranks-later/page-3#e
      ntry4635153
   2. https://mlpforums.com/topic/155662-s06e15-28-pranks-later/page-5#e
      ntry4635393
   3. https://mlpforums.com/topic/155662-s06e15-28-pranks-later/page-8#e
      ntry4635999












































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 5]

