ATP 49                      About Them Ponies          18 September 2016


                            About Them Ponies
            “Viva Las Pegasus” and the possibility of failure

   “Viva Las Pegasus” starts out as a typical map episode (of which I’ve
   commented on many times before), so it begins with Twilight and the
   map once again telling some pair of ponies to go somewhere, and upon
   arrival, those ponies undergo the usual existential friendship
   problem crisis. The model continues to be refined, as the time spent
   finding the friendship problem is minimized, but also because new
   complexities, such as multiple candidates for the friendship problem,
   are introduced. To summarize, Fluttershy is initially convinced that
   Flim and Flam are the ponies they need to help, but AJ in her
   stubbornness wants to help anypony else so badly that she ends
   looking for more trouble. If Applejack only found one other problem,
   the episode might have collapsed into a debacle between AJ’s
   bitterness and her call of duty, but instead she finds two, which
   introduces some uncertainty. In a two problem scenario, it is easy to
   see AJ and Fluttershy picking sides, creating a polarized conflict
   where one pony’s side will ultimately be more at fault than the
   other, but with the introduction of the third problem, both ponies
   could have focused on the wrong problem while the real one slipped
   by.

   I couldn’t help but notice this uncertainty while watching the
   episode, and for me it introduced the idea that perhaps the ponies
   could fail at their quest. After all, there could be who knows how
   many problems in that one hotel alone, thus the odds of finding the
   correct one to tackle are heavily stacked against them (in theory).
   This thought didn’t last long though, as instead of dividing and
   conquering, AJ and Flutters teamed up to track down the root of all
   evil, namely a common cause for all three problems (which, also
   theoretically, could not exist and thus result in failure, but this
   is unlikely as success is a precedent). Given this fact, their
   planned impersonation of Impossibly Rich combined with the trusting
   nature of ponies sets the audience up to believe that their
   confession scheme will work, only for it to all come crashing down as
   Glademane tears off Fluttershy’s disguise. Once again, the thought
   enters my mind, much more strongly now. Could they actually fail
   their quest?

   As the episode goes, they don’t actually fail due to Flim & Flam’s
   scheme being an entire level deeper than initially suspected, but
   this doesn’t matter because failure or not, its mere possibility has
   induced the same effect: adding intensity to the episode. The most
   prime example of this is Glademane’s speech at the end; if he were to
   say it before Fluttershy and Applejack had tried to stop him, his
   gloating would not be as sinister as we fully expect the protagonists
   to overthrow him. But seeing them ‘fail’ and then watching Glademane
   gloat strikes an entirely different note; his words carry weight
   because he has succeeded in mocking friendship despite the Princess

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 49                      About Them Ponies          18 September 2016

   of friendship ambassadors’ attempts to stop him.

   This possibility of failure is something that should be utilized
   often, and to the show’s credit, it is. There’s no doubt that failure
   was an option in earlier seasons; after all, for every time that the
   Mane 6 successfully solved a problem by blasting the enemy with the
   elements of harmony (Friendship is Magic pt. 1, Return of Harmony pt.
   2), there were times when the elements of harmony failed entirely
   (Return of Harmony pt. 2, A Canterlot Wedding pt. 2). But in episodes
   analogous to this week’s, such as “The Hooffields and McColts”, the
   effect of the potential failure condition doesn’t produce as strong
   of an effect.

   In the prior, Fluttershy and Twilight are confronted immediately with
   their problem, which removes almost all uncertainty about where the
   episode leads: either they fix the family feud it or they don’t. At
   first, the attempts to resolve the conflict do fail, yet failure
   doesn’t feel as imminent here, probably because Twilight starts by
   trying the simplest of solutions. The first method might not work,
   but we expect her to keep trying others until one finally does. In
   this sense, stopping after n attempts isn’t so much failure as it is
   quitting early; success might only be only 2 more attempts away! Thus
   the effect it has on the plot isn’t as strong as it is in “Viva Las
   Pegasus,” where Fluttershy and AJ give it their all. This backfiring
   of a single, concentrated effort, is definitely a failure (in this
   case, an apparent failure), and thus carries the weight of such
   failure.

   In conclusion, the potential to fail, and fail on a large scale,
   really adds a lot to any episode of FiM, and it should; if our
   characters succeeded one hundred percent of the time, episodes would
   feel really very predictable and have their conclusions forgone. The
   twists and turns of the narrative which create the threat of failure
   also make the episode more intelligent, as it demands more wit from
   our protagonists in order to succeed. But perhaps more importantly,
   failure is something many of us can relate to, and by venturing into
   this territory, no matter how briefly, the show can explore many
   ideas that it otherwise couldn’t.

   Make sure to drop a comment if you have any thoughts on the matter! I
   will write back, sometime (next weekend is homecoming, and the week
   after I have three preliminary exams, so the next date of posting is
   up in the air). Fear not though, fellow brony; there’s always more
   pony to talk about.








brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

