ATP 41                      About Them Ponies             14 August 2016


                            About Them Ponies
              “28 Pranks Later” and Season Six Seriousness 

   When Friendship is Magic began, the world of Equestria was a happy
   place. The citizens of Ponyville lived happy lives, and our
   protagonists were busy in the midst of their preparations for the
   Summer Sun Celebration. Applejack was having a reunion with her
   family, Fluttershy was rehearsing a choir of birds, Pinkie Pie was
   throwing parties left and right, et cetera.  Even after the
   celebration had ended, and despite Nightmare Moon threatening to turn
   the world on its head, Ponyville maintained that happy go lucky vibe.
   The only danger it faced was the Everfree forest, or perhaps the
   occasional stampede of bunnies. It was a time when Twilight Sparkle
   need not do anything but study the magic of friendship; the world
   truly was at peace.

   But in five becoming six seasons, so much has disrupted that peace.
   Parasprites, dragons, Discord, the Flim Flam brothers, Trixie, Tirek,
   bugbears, Starlight Glimmer. The Mane 6 have come face to face with
   all these crises and villains, and every time the Mane 6 succeeded,
   but only just. With the fate of Equestria constantly hanging at the
   mercy of these six ponies, there is no doubt that they’ve grown and
   matured. Only because of them can Ponyville and the rest of Equestria
   be at ease, but what of the mane six themselves? Will they ever be
   carefree again like they were back in season one?

   When Rainbow Dash and Pinkie Pie start cranking out the jokes in “28
   Pranks Later”, it is the first time that they’ve done so since season
   one, episode five. This is incredible, because it shows that even
   after all these “years” (who knows how long it really is in pony
   time), the two still retain parts of their initial characterization. 
   It’s the same old Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash, but better, as the
   lessons they’ve learned over the years have improved their character.
   Or so we hope.

   The reality is that most of the mane six have lost that spark they
   had in season one. At that time, Rarity, AJ, and Twilight could all
   be observed laughing at Rainbow’s pranks in “Griffon the Brush Off,”
   but in this week’s episode, not one of them even cracked a smile at
   Rainbow’s very successful attempts. Thus it would appear that by
   maturing, they’ve lost their sense of humor and can only look at the
   pranks through the eyes of the serious. Rainbow, on the other hand,
   doesn’t seem to have matured at all in this episode, as she doesn’t
   know when to stop her pranking and call it a success. She frequently
   oversteps the boundaries, not only scaring Fluttershy (THOU SHALT NOT
   SCARE FLUTTERSHY EVER!) but also dragging other characters like Mr.
   Cake and Cranky into the mess by pranking them as well. Pinkie Pie
   alone fines the perfect balance in this episode by enjoying some of
   Rainbow’s smaller pranks, but telling her to stop when she’s gone too
   far. In this way we can see both the old, prank loving Pinkie within

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 41                      About Them Ponies             14 August 2016

   the mature and considerate Pie.

   Ultimately, what’s really confronted in this episode is how serious
   our characters are and/or should be. Rainbow champions the care free
   attitude of old, while Fluttershy and the others champion a more
   serious tone. As not being considerate in favor of doing whatever one
   personally wants usually doesn’t end well in real life, Fluttershy’s
   point becomes the moral of the episode: don’t prank ponies who don’t
   want to be pranked. Yet at the same time, the method by which the
   lesson is hammered into Dash’s head is more similar to what Dash is
   trying to say: not everything has to be entirely serious. Twilight or
   the others could have easily disciplined Rainbow, but instead Pinkie
   gets the all of Ponyville in on one huge joke to illustrate the same
   point. In essence, jokes are used to provide serious commentary about
   jokes themselves.

   In some sense, this causes the episode to contradict itself: by
   concluding that it’s best to treat matters more seriously, the
   episode asks us to condemn the pranks of Rainbow Dash, yet it’s those
   very pranks that bring the episode to life. Without the cookie crazed
   zombies and all the other jokes featured (personal favorite was the
   whoopee cushion), the episode would be nothing more than a plain
   lecture. In the same way that MLP:FiM tries to balance meaningful
   messages and fun filled stories, so too must this episode balance its
   humor with its theme.

   I think I’m just making myself more confused at this point; there’s
   some kind of parallel going on with this episode’s theme and the way
   the show at large has become more and more serious, but the
   connection’s slipped my mind.  Maybe I’ll see it more clearly another
   time.

   Anyways, your thoughts, if any? Write me a comment! I’ll be doing
   responses on Thursday as always!


















brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

