ATP 43                      About Them Ponies             22 August 2016


                            About Them Ponies
 “The Times They Are a Changeling” and breaking the xenophobic barrier

   MLP has been no stranger to conflict between different species. With
   the land of Equestria being inhabited by dragons and griffons and
   yaks and countless other creatures besides ponies, it is only natural
   that conflict breaks out in between the species, as conflict can
   erupt between any two groups. “The Times They Are a Changeling” is a
   prime example of this behavior, as the episode’s central conflict
   revolves around an unobserved war between pony and changeling.

   As the changelings have historically attacked the ponies in order to
   consume their love, there’s no doubt as to why the two species don’t
   get along with each other; the only relationship is that of predator
   and prey.  However, there are other examples of species that are also
   treated as enemies despite doing less harm than the changelings: this
   list includes dragons, the fruit bats from “Bats”, Iron Will from
   “Putting your hoof down”, and Zecora from “Bridle Gossip.” In these
   cases, the other species is treated like they are a monster, perhaps
   because they are one, though this is certainly not true in Zecora’s
   case. The flip side to this is that some species are treated as
   friend despite them being a foe. Characters like Discord are treated
   the same way as other ponies, despite Discord continuously causing
   mischief (though some might say he’s “reformed” now). Another example
   of allies that act like enemies would be the yaks from Yakyakistan,
   who destroy everything placed before them and yet are considered
   friends by the end of the episode.

   In conclusion, the species on the friend’s list and the species
   considered to be enemy of the state appear to on these lists
   independent of their actions, though it cannot be denied that some
   species are immediately ostracized and some aren’t. It is this
   ostracization that this weeks’ episode attempts to explore through
   Thorax, although its connection to real world ostracization, such as
   racism, sexism, et cetera, is limited. This is because the antagonism
   between changeling and pony is not the result of prejudice, as
   prejudice is “an adverse opinion or leaning formed without just
   grounds or before sufficient knowledge.”(*1) Because the ponies do
   have sufficient knowledge about changelings, and they know that
   changelings are designed to hunt them down, Thorax is treated like a
   monster not because of prejudice, but because all other changelings
   are literally monsters. While Thorax may be an exception, he is
   likely to be the only exception, which limits the themes of the
   episode to a smaller subset of scenarios and decreases overall
   audience relatability.

   Despite this, the episode still has the opportunity to provide
   commentary on “othering” individuals, but it doesn’t take advantage
   of this opportunity. With the discovery that a benevolent changeling
   exists, the question that arises is how will the ponies accept a
   
brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 43                      About Them Ponies             22 August 2016

   changeling into their society, as it currently believes all
   changelings are monsters? This is the real conflict at hoof, but the
   episode shies away from it. When Spike needs to encourage the others
   to accept Thorax, he sings:

    |
    |  “Would you say I’m a hero, glorious and brave
    |  If I told you something you wouldn’t believe
    |  That sometimes I’m scared and I can make mistakes
    |  And I’m not so heroic, it seems”
    |
    |  But if day can turn to night and the darkness turn to light
    |  Then why can’t we imagine a changeling can change?
    |
    |  No two ponies are exactly the same
    |  No two snowflakes ever match their design
    |  And I thought I was strong but I was nothing but wrong
    |  When I forgot to be friendly and kind.
    |
    |  Chorus
    |
    |  Would you say I’m a hero, glorious and brave
    |  If I told you something you wouldn’t believe
    |  This Changeling it seems knows the real me
    |  And would stay by my side till the end
    |
    |  Chorus
    |

   With the majority of the song focusing on Spike regretting his denial
   of Thorax, it doesn’t provide any commentary on the complicated
   nature of Thorax’s existence. Rather, the song only affirms facts we
   already knew, and lyrically, the song has no more effect than Spike
   saying, “Girls, Thorax isn’t evil; he saved my life. Somehow, I
   forgot to tell you that.” Essentially, the only reason Twilight
   Sparkle and the others should accept Thorax is because of Spike’s
   recommendation, and not Thorax’s actual character.

   This is strange, because people aren’t friends in real life merely
   because another says one should be. Nor do people believe others are
   intrinsically good-natured without seeing them do good actions. While
   I suppose it’s possible for ponies to immediately overcome their
   mistrust at the word of a friend, it then doesn’t make sense for them
   to be so mistrusting to begin with. Do they really think changelings
   are evil or not? If they do, we’d expect them to be much more
   hesitant to accept Thorax; if they don’t, we’d expect them not to
   need Spike’s intervention to begin with.

   For these reasons, the episode doesn’t do a very good job at
   examining the nature of this xenophobic conflict. The audience is
   lead to believe that ponies have this underlying fear of changelings,
   
brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 43                      About Them Ponies             22 August 2016

   yet this fear is dissipated quickly, without even acknowledging that
   it exists. This feels unrealistic, and I find “Bridle Gossip” to be a
   much better example of this kind of conflict. In “Bridle Gossip,” the
   ponies initially believe that Zecora is a threat, but by spending
   time and talking with her, they realized the error of their ways. By
   episodes’ end, the audience knows the Mane 6 are friends with Zecora,
   without needing any “I would like to extend my hoof in friendship”
   line.

   Anyways, that’s the lens by which I watch “The Times They Are a
   Changeling.” It’s quite probable the writers were aiming at a
   different lesson for the episode, but this is the one I see in it. If
   you’d like to share any thoughts on the episode, make sure to drop a
   comment below!

   Also, this marks the first blogpost that I flat out missed my Sunday
   deadline for. This mostly was because of college starting back up
   again, so if posts come out inconsistently at times, please bear with
   me! I’m doing my best to keep up with classwork as well as fandom,
   though no pony’s perfect.
































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 43                      About Them Ponies             22 August 2016


                               References:
   1. http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/prejudice

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

