ATP 57                      About Them Ponies            4 February 2017


                            About Them Ponies
                           Leaving the fandom

   Before the internet age, every TV show, movie, book, and video game
   existed as stand-alone entertainment. Once watched, read, played,
   consumed, the story was over; maybe you’d watch it a few more times,
   maybe you’d discuss the work with friends or family, but eventually
   one would run out of entertainment, and one would move on quickly to
   the next show, movie, book, or game. The internet, of course, has
   changed that. With the ability to share anything with anyone, it
   became possible for those excited by a work to share that excitement
   online. Creativity ran rampant because the creatively inclined now
   had an audience to share their fan creations with. Instead of dying
   after the first viewing, the interest in a work could be fueled by
   fans, growing to become something much larger than the original show:
   a fanatic domain.

   Because of fandoms, now it’s possible to enjoy a work twice; once for
   the source material, and once again through the eyes of fan art,
   music, animation, and more. In fact, if a fandom produces a lot of
   content like our own MLP fandom, it’s quite possible for one enjoy
   the same thing forever, and many seem determined to do just that. All
   you have to do is ask around, and I’m sure you’ll find those who say
   they’ll be faithful to pony to the end and beyond!

   This has lead to an interesting concept we all know as “leaving the
   fandom.” In our endless enjoyment of pony, someone’s choice to leave
   the fandom might appears as a sudden shift from enjoying to disliking
   pony. This seems especially true when someone horse famous proclaims
   their disinterest loudly and vanishes in the blink of an eye; lesser
   known fans tend to model this behavior as they too leave in an angry
   huff. It’s a strange phenomenon because it seems unlikely that a fan
   of the show would suddenly dislike it enough to abandon it entirely.
   As most fans probably can’t ever imagine becoming that angry or
   suddenly disliking the show, to them leaving doesn’t seem remotely
   feasible, only an oddity that some fans experience.

   But does it really make sense to stay in the fandom indefinitely, and
   how active does one have to be to qualify as “in the fandom?” In the
   same way that the astronomical universe will end either in a “big
   crunch” or a “big freeze,” the fandom could cease after FiM’s final
   episode, or if it pours into G5, the show might drag on so long that
   its content becomes less meaningful in the same way the universe’s
   energy becomes less concentrated. If the show ends but the fandom is
   still active, it’s even possible that a combination of the two might
   occur, with pony completely over but the fandom still dragging along.

   If you ask me, neither of these options sound that appealing, much
   like the death of the universe also doesn’t sound great anyway you
   put it, so the game will at some point become a judgement call: At

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 57                      About Them Ponies            4 February 2017

   what point is participating in the fandom no longer worth the effort?
   Even though the end times are not here yet, there are some days when
   I look at the past and present of FiM, and when I see my favorite
   things about FiM disappearing, I wonder whether it’s time to cut my
   losses and move on. In my time in the fandom, I’ve written
   fanfiction, composed music, put together a few analysis videos, and
   devoted so many hours to this blog. My greatest fandom aspiration, to
   attend Bronycon, has been fulfilled, and what excites me now is not
   FiM, but another, newer show.

   It is this kind of attitude which I think is the actual cause of
   people leaving the fandom. Because at the end of the day, the story,
   not necessarily of the Mane 6, but of us engaging with the show must
   come to an end in order for it to feel cathartic and complete. People
   desire an ending, and with the show being very unclear about its end,
   it only makes sense that some will manifest that ending themselves,
   and some will slip away due to lack of interest in a story never
   finished. To those still in the fandom when another leaves, the
   departure might feel premature as it would if they were departing,
   but for those that left, it probably feels more like blissful
   retirement after a good many years at the job.

   Of course, I’m never leaving the fandom, or at least not before the
   movie airs. I’ve been counting down to the date for over 750 days,
   and I’m not calling it quits yet :)

   If any of you have some thoughts, feel free to leave a comment below.
   I read and respond to 100% of them, though this claim is very easy to
   uphold when there are zero comments.























brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

