ATP 56                      About Them Ponies            13 January 2017


                            About Them Ponies
                About clop and the sexualizing of ponies

   This is not something easy to write about. The subject I’ll be
   discussing is controversial, and it hits hard on an emotional level.
   Any attempt to discuss it usually is barred down by every kind of
   bias and logical fallacy in the book. Yet every time the subject is
   brought up, my mind screams with unspoken arguments and dialogue, and
   they haunt me, to the point that I’ve written and scrapped this essay
   many times. What follows is my best attempt to discuss this, and
   while it might not be perfect, I will finally be at ease sharing
   these words, knowing that I tried my best.

   The subject is clopping, so if you’re not willing to have a mature,
   adult conversation at the moment, it’s best to stop reading now. Most
   of you are probably well familiar with the C word, though there will
   always be some who aren’t, so to be brief, a long time ago on the
   forums of 4chan, there was a set of “rules” declared that the
   internet must follow. While most of these rules are forgotten (you
   can look them up if you want), one stands out infamously. “Rule 34:
   There is porn of it; no exceptions.” R34 (as it is frequently
   abbreviated) is very much more like the law of gravity than a rule;
   there is no denying it nor its implications. My Little Pony:
   Friendship is Magic is not the exception of this rule, but rather the
   most prominent example of it. Tens of thousands of pornographic
   images of MLP characters exist, and there’s so much of it that MLP
   probably has more porn than any other fandom in existence.

   Most people’s reaction to this fact is polar. In one camp we have the
   audience of this porn, which takes delight in its existence, and in
   the other camp, we have those who don’t view it and think it’s pretty
   messed up. This isn’t to say there is no middle ground in between;
   like all dichotomies, the reality is more of a spectrum, but for the
   most part, people’s opinions lie on the ends of this spectrum. Either
   you’re glad it exists, or you’re horrified by its existence. The
   point of discussing clop is not to change your opinion it; after all,
   the response to this material is an emotional one, and people can’t
   ignore what their emotions tell them. Instead, we must apply logic
   and reason to understand the issue, and what it means for the MLP
   fandom.

   If you’re interested in why people seek out this pornography,
   ShellyD(*1) provides an excellent, objective commentary on the
   subject. While ShellyD does a great job addressing the “why”
   question, his presentation doesn’t delve deeper into what this means
   for to the fandom. It does, however, shed light on the complicated
   nature of human sexuality, which is something that our species has
   pondered for forever yet surprisingly isn’t openly talked about in
   nations like the US.


brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 56                      About Them Ponies            13 January 2017

   While sexuality is a very large and nuanced topic, in this day and
   age there are two ‘rules’ that are pretty much universally upheld.
   Sexual behavior must be consensual among all involved parties, and it
   also must be safe. In most cases, as long as those two criteria are
   met, the sexual practice in question is considered to be okay,
   regardless of how other people view it. It is from this angle that
   most people in favor of clop justify it. As clopping only involves
   one individual, it is consensual, and it’s obviously just as safe as
   normal masturbation, so many cloppers will ask, “What’s the problem?
   When did clop ever harm anyone else?”

   I’d like to point out here that by the above logic, consensual and
   safe sexual behavior at any time, at anyplace, in front of anyone, is
   okay, and that’s just too large of a stretch to make. In the real
   world, there’s a lot more rules at play: laws, morals, social norms,
   etc. Why such rules exist is an interesting conversation in it of
   itself, but there’s no denying that here context is king; having sex
   with your partner in your own home is very different than having sex
   at work, in a school, or in public. The same applies for masturbation
   and all other sexual activities.

   So when we talk about clop, we’re talking about a very specific
   context, the MLP universe. As well all know, My Little Pony:
   Friendship is Magic is a show dedicated to ideas like kindness,
   generosity, honesty, loyalty, and laughter, all bundled up into an
   idyllic package. While this show means different things to different
   people, there’s two obvious things that we can say are true about
   FiM:

    1. Its primary theme is the idea that “Friendship is Magic”
    2. Its target audience is young girls

   These two facts alone ensure that the show never is going to dive
   into sexuality at all, as it is not age appropriate but also not
   relevant to its platonic themes. This makes the show itself a bad
   place for porn, and I don’t think there’s anyone actually hoping for
   the show to include sex scenes any time soon.

   What’s more controversial is whether the MLP universe is an
   acceptable place for porn and sexual activity. To be more definitive,
   the MLP universe consists not just what we see in the show, but also
   what we don’t see, and this is why it’s much harder to judge whether
   the universe is the right context. We simply don’t know everything.
   However, one can take context clues from the show to discern whether
   sexuality does exist within the universe.

   The base assumption is that the show is representative of the
   universe like any smaller sample of a larger data set. So if sexual
   behavior (arousal, intercourse, etc) exists in the universe, we’d
   expect to see hints of it in the show. However (and perhaps
   strangely), there aren’t any hints of this in the show: the

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 56                      About Them Ponies            13 January 2017

   characters are never horny, they are never suggestive, and most don’t
   even experience romantic attraction with the exception of a few
   crushes. Even among pairings like Shining Armor and Cadence, and Mr.
   and Ms. Cake, their relationships aren’t different than that of close
   friends. The only hint towards any sexual experience like what humans
   have is that the opposite gendered couples have offspring. In other
   words, reproduction is possible, but its mechanism is unknown. We do,
   however, know of one canon mechanism of reproduction: parasprites
   reproduce asexually by vomiting their children.

   Any further explanation starts making assumptions, but from what
   we’ve seen, it’s fair to conclude that the characters are asexual and
   only act in platonic ways (with an occasional burst of romance). This
   also aligns with Lauren Faust’s intention “to give girls a respectful
   interpretation of the thing they like.” Because young girls aren’t
   sexually aware, any world they would imagine would be platonic
   (perhaps with some romance) like Equestria. This all leads to the
   conclusion that the MLP universe isn’t the appropriate place for
   porn, due to the show’s design.

   Rule 34 of course, states that there’s going to be porn, no matter
   what, so what happens when you take a platonic universe and make porn
   of it? The result is an act of transformation; in the original work
   all the characters were strictly platonic, and in the derivative work
   the characters all turned sexual (or hyper sexual, as pornographic
   works try to be as arousing as possible). As this transformation is
   from one extreme to the other, it’s not surprising that some fans
   dislike it. After all, if an individual likes a work because of its
   specific characteristics, removing those characteristics is a sure
   way to get them to dislike it.

   But to look beyond the individual and their preference, what does
   this transformation, from platonic to sexual, mean to the fandom at
   large?  The fandom (by definition I’d say) is a place to celebrate
   the show with others online and in real life, so the fandom’s goal
   should always be to do just that: celebrate MLP:FiM. This includes
   the creation of fanworks like art, music, and stories because these
   works typically reflect the same things we love about the show,
   whatever it may be. But because clop is transformative, it does not
   reflect the established characters and their platonic relationships.

   This puts clop into a category I call non-appreciative fan works, and
   in it falls anything that celebrates ideas opposite to ones in the
   show, like blood and gore as another example. This doesn’t mean that
   these works are bad, evil, or shouldn’t exist, it’s just that they
   don’t celebrate the show like other fan works, and by using the same
   franchise to push the opposite message, these works can disrespect
   the show. How much they disrespect the show depends on the fan work
   itself; a long fanfiction with a well explained sexual relationship
   wouldn’t be disrespectful at all (it also wouldn’t be pornography),
   but an image showing the entire Mane6 being raped would be incredibly

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 56                      About Them Ponies            13 January 2017

   so. Typically, the more sexually explicit a work, and the less
   context provided, the more depreciative the work is, though this
   scale is different for every person.

   The best way to handle non-appreciative fan works is the tried and
   true method of tagging. Works that are particularly sexual or
   particularly bloody probably aren’t what fans of the show are looking
   for because FiM isn’t either of those things. It’s also better if the
   tagging systems are nuanced; there’s a big difference between a work
   that’s sexual, and a work that’s pornographic (in case I haven’t made
   the distinction clear, pornographic works are sexually explicit works
   with the intention or effect of being as arousing as possible). The
   same nuance holds true for the “saucy” works; is the pony’s butt
   there to be arousing, or is it there because that’s just where butts
   anatomically go? If done properly, this ensures that no one
   accidentally views works that contrast what’s explored in FiM.

   Part of this is also not pushing the clop agenda in the rest of the
   fandom. As stated earlier, the fandom’s goals should be to celebrate
   the show for what it is, and clop deviates from that, so promoting it
   beyond acknowledging that it exists is unfair to people who wish to
   avoid it. The same holds true for people who intentionally attack
   cloppers; cloppers are also allowed to celebrate MLP:FiM, and seeking
   them out to yell at them is worse. Discussion with the intention to
   understand one another is always fine, but sadly it often turns toxic
   (for the brave souls who wish to understand, I applaud you and hope
   that you don’t receive nasty comments like I have).

   The other issue that should be resolved is the misunderstanding
   between the two most opposite sides. It’s always okay if someone
   judges MLP:FiM as a bad place for sex because of the context, and
   it’s always okay if someone likes the porn. But when a member of the
   fandom discovers the clop (or a clopper), and they find the sexual
   transformation disrespectful, how do they know the artist/person
   isn’t trying to be disrespectful? Short answer is that they cannot
   know, unless cloppers/artists try to make that clear.  For example,
   when someone states, “I love clop,” what do they mean? Is it the
   image of consensual sex between two of their favorite characters that
   they like, or is it the image of all the show’s cast being raped that
   they enjoy? These are two very different things, so if cloppers don’t
   want people to assume the worst, they should be more specific. The
   statement “I love clop because I like sexual fantasies between my
   favorite ships” is much more descriptive of what the person actually
   enjoys, and it also explains their motivation. Really, any short
   explanation should be enough to rid people of doubt that one is
   trying to be disrespectful.

   Now to quickly summarize everything I’ve stated above: Clop is a hard
   thing to discuss. The subject tends to polarize people, which likely
   due to how complicated sexuality is. There is nothing intrinsically
   wrong with clop, though the judgement is ultimately based on whether

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

ATP 56                      About Them Ponies            13 January 2017

   one thinks it’s appropriate given the context of My Little Pony:
   Freindship is magic. Because it’s a show about friendship, and
   because it depicts its characters platonically, many will reach the
   conclusion that porn of the show is not appropriate. Anyhow, clop is
   a transformative work, which means that it should be tagged and
   available, but not promoted and not hated. Misunderstanding can
   hopefully be cleared up by having cloppers explain to non-cloppers
   that they mean no offense when the two worlds do collide.

   At the end of the day we still can all celebrate pony together, and
   diversity within the fandom can help make it a great place.









































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 5]

ATP 56                      About Them Ponies            13 January 2017


                               References:
   1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jyj-PBpOxig

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 6]

