ATP 52                      About Them Ponies            22 October 2016


                            About Them Ponies
   “Where the Apple Lies” and catching the Mane 6 out of their element

   Waaaaaaay back when in the very first episode of the show, Twilight
   Sparkle and the audience were introduced to Applejack, Rainbow Dash,
   Rarity, Fluttershy and Pinkie Pie. Without knowing why we were
   introduced to these characters, episode two continued their story,
   and by its end, we were not only seeing them as typical protagonists,
   but symbolic manifestations of divine ideals; Pinkie was laugher,
   Fluttershy was kindness, Rarity was generosity, Rainbow was loyalty,
   and AJ was honesty. Inspired by such ideas, the early fandom left the
   religions of the world and formed a new one with its holy tenants
   sacredly referred to as “the elements of harmony.”

   Okay, the above story isn’t really how the elements of harmony came
   to be. A much better executive summary would be that Lauren Faust,
   with only 50 minutes of animation time to reboot the My Little Pony
   franchise, had to come up with some interesting idea to grab the
   audience’s attention, thus the elements of harmony were born. Each
   one was assigned to a pony, and while these traits align nicely with
   their personalities depicted later on, at the moment it was a bit
   strange. Aside from it being necessary for the sake of the plot, did
   these ponies really exemplify the traits they were typecast to?

   This action of labeling each character with an element essentially
   conforms (or tries to conform) their personality to box in the same
   way stereotypes do. If someone notices a person wearing glasses, that
   person might assume that the bearer of those glasses is smart, not
   because of their character, but because of that nerds-wear-glasses
   stereotype. Similarly, when we are told that Rarity is the element of
   generosity, we expect her to be generous independent of everything
   else we know about her. But is she actually generous? Sure, there are
   times when Rarity does make grand gestures of generosity, but we also
   see interactions between her and Sweetie Belle where she refuses to
   give Sweetie even a lick of attention.

   When characters like Rarity and Rainbow Dash act out of their
   element, we question not about why they struggle to uphold their
   character in that moment, but rather how strong the analogy to the
   Elements of Harmony really is, because neither of these characters
   have conformed to their element well. Rainbow Dash, for all that she
   is, has never actually shown the unconditional loyalty we expect.
   Even more interesting is that, according to Lauren Faust(*1) ,
   Rarity’s original element was not generosity, but rather inspiration.
   In some sense, we actually expect these two character to act more out
   of their element than in, and when they do conform to their element,
   it actually feels more out of character than less, as they suddenly
   switch from not being loyal/generous to being very much so.



brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 52                      About Them Ponies            22 October 2016

   However, the other three element bearers (Applejack, Fluttershy, and
   Pinkie Pie), do conform to their element, affirming that the elements
   of harmony actually do correlate with actual character traits:
   Fluttershy always tries to be kind, Pinkie always is up for a good
   laugh, and Applejack always tells the truth. The above is true so
   often that it is an invariant, meaning anytime we see either of these
   three characters, we can count on the fact they will be upholding
   these traits. The only time they are called into question is when
   each pony is the focus of an episode. Usually by design, the plot in
   these episodes is designed to try the protagonist’s character, and
   while they might not follow their element throughout the body of the
   episode, the invariant is still upheld by episode’s end.

   One of the criticisms of the protagonists always conforming to their
   traits is that it makes their characters simple. If Applejack always
   spits out the truth, we might assume she’s programmed to do so, and
   we begin to think of her as more of a computer (she is an Apple™
   after all) blindly following instructions rather than a character
   with complex motivations behind her actions. The other side effect is
   that there is no room to explore scenarios where Applejack might
   actually lie to others because we know such situations will never
   happen, and thus we lose out on an interesting story.

   This is why deviation from a pony’s element becomes insanely
   interesting; not only is it surprising, but it allows for the
   character to explore another side of them as well as find motivation
   for why their character is as such. All of this is done masterly in
   “Where the Apple Lies” (yay! We finally got to the episode, it only
   took 750 words xD). The episode is a flashback to Applejack’s past
   before she was the element of honesty, so there is no contradiction
   of character here when she lies. Furthermore, her incessant lying
   creates a perfect storm of a story, with the whole thing blowing way
   out of proportion in a true comedic farce. But most importantly,
   Applejack’s truth telling and lack of is given motivation. In the
   past, she lies in hope of a deal that will benefit Sweet Apple Acres,
   demonstrating not only her commitment to the farm, but also a desire
   to be the responsible one making decisions. Years later, AJ’s
   motivation to tell the truth arises from this earlier disaster,
   showing that AJ doesn’t blindly tell the truth, but rather tells the
   truth based on wisdom gained from earlier experiences.

   In all, the episode provides a lot more insight into AJ’s character
   than the title of “Element of Honesty” will ever do on its own, as it
   shows part of the journey AJ took to become an honest mare. I hope
   that in future seasons we might see something similar for Fluttershy
   and Pinkie (as this can’t be done for Rarity and Rainbow since they
   don’t stick to their element, and Twilight’s journey we have already
   seen). However, this might be difficult to pull off, as backstories
   which lead to Pinkie and Fluttershy’s outlooks are likely few and far
   in between.


brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 52                      About Them Ponies            22 October 2016

   But what do you all think? Drop a comment below if you want; I like
   to read them :)


















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 52                      About Them Ponies            22 October 2016


                               References:
   1. https://twitter.com/Fyre_flye/status/312634060839215104

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

