ATP 51                      About Them Ponies            10 October 2016


                            About Them Ponies
   “P.P.O.V. (Pony Point of View)” and Conflict Resolution Cleverness

   In every episode of MLP featuring the Mane 6, we should expect the
   Mane 6 to enter a state of conflict. While Equestria & Ponyville at
   large may be at peace, there is no reason why the same should hold
   true for every pair of two characters at any given time; it’s just
   not statistically likely that everypony always has a perfect
   relationship with every other pony. Thus, there must be a conflict
   (that’s why we have a show after all), and assuming the protagonists
   remain friends, this conflict must be resolved.

   However, this argument says nothing about how each conflict is
   resolved, so throughout the show’s episodes, we encounter many ways
   the writers choose to do so. There’s the classic blast ‘em with
   friendship method, usually followed by the villain reformation in
   five sentences or less, but in less action oriented episodes, the
   conflict is usually resolved with either the admittance of some
   mistake or the clarification of an earlier miscommunication. In fact,
   pretty much the entirety of Season 6 falls into one of these two
   categorizations with “No Second Prances,” “The Saddle Row Review,”
   “Flutter Brutter,” and “The Times They are a Changeling” all being
   examples of some character messing up, and “The Crystalling,” “Newbie
   Dash,” “Spice up Your Life,” and “The Fault in Our Cutie Marks” all
   being examples of miscommunication.

   Knowing this, it’s remarkably easy to initially watch P.P.O.V with
   the expectation that once again, the episode will be resolved with
   some pony admitting fault. This outcome seems especially probably
   when all three of the ponies involved refuse to admit any fault at
   the beginning, each blaming another for the capsize of their ship.
   Each pony’s story offers a different interpretation of events, which
   leads the audience to believe that the ship’s sinking is probably the
   result of multiple causality, in which all three are about equal to
   blame for the ship’s capsize.

   However, Twilight reveals at the end of the episode that the actual
   cause of wreck was a tri-horn bunyip, and its sudden appearance at
   the scene of the crime establishes that no pony was actually at
   fault. This is rather comical as blaming the disaster on a mythical
   sea creature would normally appear to be a farfetched excuse, yet it
   is the truth of the matter here. Functionally, the bunyip serves as
   quick but effective way of scapegoating all blame off of our
   protagonists, changing the course of the episode’s plot to arrive at
   a different resolution.

   This is an interesting narrative choice, because Applejack, Rarity,
   and Pinkie Pie probably would have gotten back together as friends
   without the bunyip, so why bother throwing one in? The bunyip acts as
   a deus ex machina of sorts, arriving at the last possible second to

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 51                      About Them Ponies            10 October 2016

   save the protagonists from having to admit their own fault. Because
   of its existence, Twilight doesn’t actually need to reconcile her
   friends, and an opportunity to demonstrate the give-and-take of
   healthy friendships is wasted. The bunyip, like all instances of deus
   ex machina, can feel contrived; the only reason it exists is to
   interrupt that one scene and “save the day,” although as pointed out
   earlier, there is no reason for why the day needs to be saved.

   However, in contrary to the above, I think the bunyip’s inclusion
   makes the episode better, not because it’s necessary, but because its
   inclusion throws the audience for a loop. What I’ve described in the
   prior paragraph is what we expect from the show after so many
   episodes: a friendship problem solved when a neutral third party (in
   this case, Twilight) shows the others the error of their ways. In
   essence, it’s another resolution by admittance of fault, and it’s
   very predictable. By contrast, no expects a bunyip to be under the
   boat, and its revelation causes the resolution to be driven by the
   discovery of previously unknowable knowledge. At worst, such a
   resolution might seem a bit odd, yet its oddness reflects how the
   real world also can act in strange ways at times. At best, this
   resolution can be seen as self-aware and meta; the writers know we
   are expecting nothing more than a pep talk from Twilight, so instead
   they skip over it and throw in a bunyip to take its place. For this
   reason, I find the resolution of this episode to be clever and not
   illogical.

   Even so, there’s more to this episode’s resolution than just the
   bunyip because once the cause of the wreckage is known, it still
   remains up to Pinkie, AJ, and Rarity to amend their friendship; the
   blame has been discarded, but the disconnect remains. From this point
   of view, the bunyip functions as a way of transforming the conflict
   from fault-finding to miscommunication, the other major category of
   conflicts. Here the bunyip is less of a game changer as Twilight
   still needs to help her friends reconnect, but even so, the bunyip
   still provides that unpredictable twist. This gives the episode the
   best of both scenarios; a little of the expected Twilight being the
   Princess of Friendship and a little of the unexpected, “I forgot we
   were in Equestria and there are magical monsters everywhere.”

   Or that’s what I think. Drop a comment below if you want so share
   your thoughts! I’m happy to read and respond to them.











brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

