ATP 54                      About Them Ponies           12 December 2016


                            About Them Ponies
   “To Where and Back Again” and the Development of Starlight Glimmer

    |
    |  “I'm afraid to go back to the village for the celebration.”
    |
    |  “But why, darling? You went back to apologize. They accepted.
    |  Everypony has moved on.”
    |
    |  “But have they? They don't really know how much I've changed. Or
    |  even worse, maybe I haven't changed as much as I think I have!”
    |

   This finale, like its predecessors, comes loaded with all the
   adventure we’ve come to expect from MLP season finales: dire
   situations, larger than life villains, epic showdowns, and inevitably
   saving the day through the magic of friendship. It’s good stuff, and
   I for one am very satisfied with how the writers keep finding new
   ways for pony kind to triumph over evil without feeling repetitive.
   But as one might guess from the quote, there’s another conflict and
   resolution in this episode that fascinates me, and it’s Starlight
   Glimmer’s internal conflict amidst the changeling’s takeover.

   As Starlight was a new character in season 5, she started in the same
   state that all the Mane Six were for the first season; undeveloped
   with a gimmick or two to entice the audience to want to know more.
   Starlight was introduced as the leader of a small, happy village only
   to later be revealed as a villainous dictator with sorceress-like
   powers. Later confronted with the choice to destroy Equestria or
   start over with Twilight, she chose the latter, thus becoming a
   member of the secondary cast with a significant amount of backstory
   to take her in any direction the writers choose.

   With time, we expect to learn more about each character, slowly,
   steadily, as we watch how she interacts, how she confronts
   challenges, and how she embraces her successes and failures. Season
   one definitely achieves this for the Mane 6; each character was
   featured in multiple episodes but never in the same role or for the
   same purpose. A great example of this is Rarity, who was initially
   characterized as nothing more than your typical girly girl, but whose
   episodes involve her confronting characters with opposing viewpoints,
   developing her artistic passion, being kidnapped, and dealing with
   jealousy.

   However, Starlight Glimmer’s development has been fundamentally
   different than that of the Mane6. With the exception of “A Hearth’s
   Warming Tale,” all her episodes are a mix of her struggling with her
   past. The season finale (as well as premier) are definitely clear on
   this front with Starlight constantly reminding herself of how badly
   she screwed up, but I’d also argue Starlight’s trouble in making new

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 54                      About Them Ponies           12 December 2016

   friends is linked to her struggle with her past. In “No Second
   Prances,” she directly states “I think everybody knows about my past”
   as reason why she’s having difficulty making friends, but also
   nagging at her in both episodes is this overwhelming fear of failure
   which seems to have surfaced from her earlier “failure” as village
   leader.

   In any case, her panicky moments seem to be a subject that her
   episodes are fixated around, preventing us from learning more about
   her character like we did when the Mane6 were introduced. It also
   doesn’t help that she doesn’t appear in secondary roles alongside the
   Mane6 in their episodes. However, I’d say the primary reason for why
   Starlight’s limited development is the discontinuity from season five
   to six.

   At the end of season five, Starlight Glimmer was a powerful, strong
   willed, and rebellious unicorn who intentionally used magic to
   manipulate others. It was no accident that she stole Star Swirl the
   Bearded’s spell and used it to try to get revenge on Twilight. She
   stopped of course, Twilight forgave her, and consequently Twilight
   began introducing the magic of friendship to Starlight. Fast-forward
   the hiatus to season six, and Starlight’s back as Twilight’s
   apprentice, but she’s not exactly the same character as before. She’s
   less rebellious and her self-confidence is completely diminished. Her
   physical appearance is also different, further suggesting a dramatic
   shift in character. For me though, the most obvious sign of a change
   is how Starlight constantly regrets her previous actions, and this is
   something I don’t believe Twilight would encourage, nor something
   season five Starlight Glimmer would do.

   So we know Starlight Glimmer changed quite a bit besides what we saw
   of her reformation in the season five finale. Perhaps these changes
   felt natural, or perhaps not, but it certainly wasn’t something
   captured on screen. Thus, when the camera turned back on, Starlight’s
   episodes may have be an effort to “catch up” and show the audience
   how Starlight felt about her past self, at the cost of not being able
   to immediately move forward and develop her next chapter. On one
   hoof, it’s an improvement over the six seconds of sobbing in which
   Sunset Shimmer was reformed, but on the other, having Starlight
   struggle with the same fundamental issue for episode after episode
   feels repetitive; after all the finale began with Starlight’s regret
   and fear from the premier in place: “Maybe I haven't changed as much
   as I think I have.”

   Hopefully though, this era of regret being Starlight’s defining
   characteristic is coming to a close. Keeping up the comparison to
   Sunset Shimmer, the season six finale would then be to Starlight what
   Rainbow Rocks is to Sunset: a chance to prove that one has changed
   for the better. And just like Sunset was the heroine of RR, Starlight
   was the heroine of “To Where and Back Again.” This and the fact
   Starlight was able to approach her village friends and explain her

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 54                      About Them Ponies           12 December 2016

   concern to them are good indicators that Starlight really is
   overcoming her doubt, and that she will able to develop beyond her
   backstory, though not until season seven.

   Aaaand that’s the season as overthought by me! Thanks to every and
   any pony who’s enjoyed reading this blog. I’ve (mostly) enjoyed
   writing it, though as you may have noticed, the further into the
   school semester, the less time I’ve been able to spend writing. Hope
   to do more of it next year though :)











































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

