ATP 53                      About Them Ponies           25 November 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                “Top Bolt,” Ambition, and Male Dominance

   The penultimate episode of the season is always one I look forward
   to. With the finale’s story almost always occupying the last two
   episodes (usually due to its adventurous narrative), it is episode 24
   that stands as the slice of life conclusion of the season. This
   episode also stands as the final opportunity to squeeze in another
   map episode, and since the map dictates that “There shall be three
   map episodes per season, and every mane 6 pony shall be in a map
   episode,” it’s not surprising that the output is a map episode
   featuring Twilight, Rainbow Dash, and the new ponies involved with
   the inevitable friendship problem.

   To cut to the chase, this story is one about Sky Stinger and Vapor
   Trail. It also is about T Sparks’ and the Dashinator’s approaches to
   solving problems, but the most emotional conflict definitely revolves
   around the former pair. For once, the “friendship problem” isn’t a
   family feud, family business, bad economics, greedy economics, or
   community building; it’s actually a problem in between two friends,
   or rather, the lack of acknowledgement that there is a problem. When
   Twilight discovers Vapor’s secret about her helping Sky, the audience
   knows that at some point there’s going to be a confrontation, and
   it’s not going to be pretty. Curiously, when the Mane Six pairing
   bring up this conflict to Vapor, Twilight doesn’t immediately force
   the two into this confrontation. Rather, they help out until Vapor
   becomes upset with Sky and angrily reveals that she’s the reason for
   Sky’s every success.

   This scene marks a transition in Vapor’s characterization; before she
   is depicted as weak, more of a fan filly of Sky rather than a
   talented flyer in her own right, but after an afternoon with Rainbow
   Dash, her passion and excitement about flying emerges. It is here
   that she discovers her own ambition to become a Wonderbolt, and with
   her flying technique improving rapidly, this goal is quite feasible.
   No longer can we view her as Sky’s weak sidekick because we now know
   that she’s the stronger flyer of the two, and that she’s also willing
   to put forth the effort needed to achieve this new dream.

   It is this newly found ambition that immediately clashes against
   Sky’s own in the middle of the episode; with Vapor realizing how much
   she loves flying, she’s upset and angry when Sky’s own ambition (not
   to mention arrogance) threatens to take some of that away from her.
   Suddenly the pair of friends become rivals (if not enemies), though
   interestingly, it’s hard to blame either’s ambition as the lone
   culprit. Without Sky’s desire to be a strong flyer, neither Sky nor
   Vapor would been able to attend the academy, but without Vapor’s
   desire to improve her own flying, the duo most certainly would have
   failed their individual flight tests. Thus, I’d argue that the real
   problem isn’t ambition, but instead the way their relationship is

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 53                      About Them Ponies           25 November 2016

   configured. Vapor clearly will sacrifice her own ambition in order to
   help Sky’s, but the reverse isn’t true, as Sky doesn’t give a crap
   about her triumphs in face of his own shortcomings.

   It is this set of give-it-all/take-it-all mentalities which strongly
   suggest that the relationship between Vapor and Sky is more male
   dominance than actual friendship. Sky Stinger exudes many aspects of
   being the alpha male with his arrogant talk, impressive flight
   maneuvers, and his “cool” (but actually obnoxious) attitude. Vapor
   Trail, on the other hoof, is quiet, supportive, and “weak;” a perfect
   subject for a male to dominant over with the irony that Vapor’s
   actually a better flyer than Sky. In the real world, such
   subservience might enforced by the male, but in this episode it’s
   purely accidental; Vapor just happens to care more about having a
   friend, thus she strives to help Sky achieve his ambition rather than
   pursue her own. It’s also important to note that Sky is oblivious to
   Vapor helping him, so it’s unlikely he’s intentionally trying to
   prevent her from perusing her own passion.

   The result, however, is the same regardless of whether Sky’s
   dominance is intentional or not; both pegasi lose out when the pair
   only pursue Sky’s ambition and not Vapor’s. As demonstrated in the
   episode, when Vapor’s only purpose is to create wind for Sky, Vapor
   loses out on learning aerial tricks, but Sky also loses out on
   learning how to fly on his own. A much better outcome is what the
   episode concludes with: two independently strong flyers each fueled
   by their own ambition. Thus the episode yields both a warning against
   one-sided relationships as well as a lesson about the good that can
   come from pursuing your passion alongside others.

   This essay is quite late (because of high college workloads), but
   About Them Ponies still continues! As always, if you have thoughts
   about this episode, the show at large, or the fandom, feel free to
   share them with me! It means this blog gets twice as much content as
   it otherwise would, and who isn’t in favor of more pony?

















brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

