ATP 5                       About Them Ponies               7 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
       Video responses from the fandom: “The Gift of the Maud Pie”

   No comment responses this week in the blog’s comment section, but
   that doesn’t prevent others from sharing their thoughts on other
   platforms, like youTube.

   First up, we have Dr. Wolf’s Review(*1)

   Dr. Wolf points out that Rarity looking for a new boutique isn’t
   really essential to the plot of the episode. Even so, I do like this
   decision. In earlier seasons of FiM, most episodes featured at least
   one or two of Mane 6 without giving them a specific reason to be
   there. Heck, sometimes there’s even all six of them without any
   additional purpose. By giving Rarity an actual reason, the story
   becomes more elaborate and realistic than if she were just there to
   have a good time. It also establishes continuity to earlier Rarity
   episodes (and I know continuity is something many reviewers live and
   die by).

   The only downside I see from this action is that if Rarity expands
   too quickly, we’ll miss out on many interesting stories that the
   writers might tell about Rarity. Canterlot Boutique was opened only
   half a season ago, and I’m still waiting to see if they ever touch
   upon the Sassy Saddles conflict again. It also could become a problem
   if Rarity’s life becomes nothing more than opening new stores and
   managing older ones. A lot of depth has been explored through
   Rarity’s character, and I’d hate to see the show forget that.

   Now British Ninja’s take on the episode(*2)

   I’m really glad British Ninja mentioned the question of show
   predictability and similar works in his review. Although I have not
   read “The Gift of the Magi,” I know quite well that often stories are
   based on other stories, which in turn are based on other stories, so
   demanding that every story be unpredictable seems like an impossible
   standard. I personally like when people take one story and then
   retell it in a different context, or with a new twist. It keeps old
   timeless stories fresh and relatable.

   Ultimately, I think the most important aspect of an episode is not
   how predictable or similar its plot is, but rather how well it tells
   its story. I’ve always been a huge fan of FiM Season 1, not because
   its stories are the most unique (in some cases, they’re quite
   predictable), but because every story captured something different
   and allowed the audience to feel that beautiful experience. So for
   every episode, I always ask myself, “Did this episode capture
   something?” Pinkie being forced to give up her party cannon
   definitely did in my eyes, and as so I will forgive any faults I may
   have with the episode at large.

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 5                       About Them Ponies               7 April 2016

   Finally we have a review from Fox-Review and Rose Pal(*3)

   Fox and Rose both do a good job at covering many points that this
   episode brings up, but the point that stays with me most is what they
   say about the relatability of the episode. Coming right off of the
   back of an episode where the moral is very hard to relate to (as none
   of us will ever have alicorn children, and only a few will become
   mentors), it’s very nice to once again have an episode with a
   relatable lesson.

   It is a bit curious though that this moral comes up now in April, as
   opposed to the holiday season where gift giving is common. I guess
   you could make an elaborate argument that the episode makes an
   anti-commercialism stance, as the only important thing at the end of
   the day is the sisterly love between Pinkie and Maud. As Hasbro pays
   for the show’s creation, it’s a bit funny to see such a moral, but
   the theme is not as pronounced as it was back in “Canterlot
   Boutique.” But who knows? Maybe that is the real reason for why this
   episode comes out in April.

   Anways, that’s all I have for this week. Looking forward to the new
   episode coming out as always.






























brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 5                       About Them Ponies               7 April 2016


                               References:
   1. http://www.youtube.com/embed/QiwmGLjNY5k
   2. http://www.youtube.com/embed/bKMtVJxPD78
   3. http://www.youtube.com/embed/dPy6w_nZ3yU















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

