ATP 58                      About Them Ponies               7 April 2017


                            About Them Ponies
                 Rainbow Dash as a Symbol of the Fandom

   If you’ve ever taken a course in literature, you’ve probably heard
   the dreaded s-word before. Symbols, hidden meaning disguised as
   objects, locations, and characters, sometimes obvious, sometimes
   obscure, but always present in great works of literature. While MLP
   may not be such a work, it is obvious that symbolism is present in
   MLP. The elements of harmony (laughter, kindness, honesty, loyalty,
   generosity, and magic) are directly embodied not in the gemstones of
   the show’s premier, but of the very characters that wore them. This
   relation between pony and abstract idea has been insisted upon so
   often during those first seasons that it’s a core aspect of the show,
   and perhaps forgotten when we look elsewhere for the show’s meaning.

   But on a more debatable note, are there any symbols present in our
   fandom and what might they mean? Having spent as much time as I have
   in the fandom, it is through observation that I’ve come to realize
   that there is such a symbol, and it is Rainbow Dash herself. While
   all of the main characters in FiM receive a fair amount of love,
   Rainbow Dash gets an especially high dose. This combined with the
   fact that her image is frequent paired with the word brony(*1) and
   the fandom’s obsession with the phrase “20% cooler” are all
   indicators that Rainbow Dash may represent more than just herself,
   but bronykind in general.

   Choosing Rainbow Dash, intentionally or not, as a symbol of the
   fandom makes sense when compared to choosing another member of the
   Mane6. Although the show revolves around Twilight Sparkle, Twilight
   Sparkle isn’t exactly your typical pony. She’s a very strong student,
   a book worm of sorts, and while there are fans who can relate to that
   quite well, it’s not a good fit for a fandom of mostly
   non-intellectuals. This leaves us with the rest of the Mane 6 for
   consideration, though given the introvert-extrovert foil of
   Fluttershy and Pinkie Pie, neither of these two ponies alone fit the
   bill. While Pinkie Pie matches the excitement and energy many of us
   have for the show, there are many of the quieter types in the fandom
   who relate much more with Fluttershy. This leaves AJ, Rarity, and
   Rainbow as choices. AJ runs into a similar problem as Twilight
   Sparkle, as much of her character is derived from her role at Sweet
   Apple Acres. Like with Twilight, I’m very sure there are some who
   share much in common with Applejack, but the dependable and honest
   agrarian leader isn’t the most fitting trope for a modern society.

   This leaves us between Rarity and Rainbow Dash, both of which appear
   to fit quite well. Given the devotion this fandom has for creating
   art, music, etc, describing the typical brony as an artist (or more
   generally, art enthusiast) like Rarity is pretty spot on. Rarity’s
   melodramatic outbursts also match the fandom’s reaction to drama, and
   her acute attention to detail aligns with the fandom’s obsession over

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 58                      About Them Ponies               7 April 2017

   tiny aspects of the show. However, it is unlikely that a fandom
   compromised of many young-adult males will rejoice as symbolizing
   themselves as the most white, girly, unicorn in the show. Instead,
   the fandom has chosen the most masculine of the Mane6, Rainbow Dash,
   whose passion and enthusiasm for flying and the Wonderbolts is
   comparable to the fandom’s love for the show. The similarities do not
   end there though; Rainbow Dash’s bright colors set her apart from the
   other ponies in a way that our fandom’s bright colored avatars,
   t-shirts, cosplays, conventions, etc. set our fandom apart from
   others. I’d also say the attitude of most fans is not that of a
   radical group intentionally subverting norms by liking a TV show made
   for little girls, but rather an initial attitude of “This show is so
   AWESOME!” later followed by “Yeah, the show’s pretty cool,” both of
   which mirror dialogue Rainbow Dash says in the show.

   But unless you’re in complete adoration of Rainbow Dash, you’re
   probably also aware that Rainbow Dash has many downfalls. Although
   she’s considered to be the element of loyalty, there have been just
   as many instances where she defects rather than be loyal (she traded
   Fluttershy for a book, she trained with the Wonderbolts rather than
   her own team, et cetera). She also tends to be the most clueless of
   the mane 6 in terms of reading her friends’ emotions and feelings,
   and there’s many moments when you wonder if she actually thinks
   (studying with Twilight for the Wonderbolts Reserves test, most of
   “May the Best Pet win,” et cetera). This isn’t to say that Rainbow
   Dash is a bad character or an unlikeable pony, it’s just that she
   isn’t the pony to turn to for intellectual matters and deep emotional
   support/understanding.

   Continuing to think of Rainbow Dash as a symbol of the fandom begs
   the question if the fandom might have the same flaws that she does.
   Once again, I don’t find the typical fan to be as cerebral as
   Twilight Sparkle. Sure there’s definitely a few fans out there like
   that, but there’s also the drama, the emotionally driven squabble,
   which seems to dominate the fandom more than crystal clear logic. And
   in that squabble, it is more difficult to reach out and understand
   other fans on that emotional level.

   But perhaps the most astute connection to be wary of between fandom
   and Rainbow Dash in my eyes is in the preoccupation both have with
   being cool, because if there’s one thing Rainbow Dash tries to be, it
   is cool. From her use of the phrase “chillax,” to her sunglasses, to
   the phrase “it needs to be twenty percent cooler,” there’s hardly
   anything Rainbow Dash does that doesn’t reflect her desire to be
   cool. The fandom at large also acts this way: with its endless pony
   memes and the insertion of pony into other popular works, the fandom
   actively keeps up with the latest internet fads, which in some sense
   is precisely what coolness is. This might not seem destructive, but
   keep in mind that something which is cool in the moment is often not
   in the future, and when something is no longer cool, what then?
   Especially now past the “peak” of the fandom in 2012, the phase when

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 58                      About Them Ponies               7 April 2017

   MLP was cool has been over for quite a while, so trying to play the
   cool game could be more harmful than not.

   Anyways, that’s a lot of ideas, many of which could use more
   elaboration and many of which may be completely opposite of what you,
   the reader, or others in the fandom experience. After all, to
   symbolize something as large as the fandom down to a single character
   is bound to produce some discrepancies and simplifications. To any
   interested readers, let me know what you think of the fandom’s
   attachment to Rainbow Dash. Is it nothing more than a majority
   thinking that she’s best pony, or is there a deeper connection?









































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 58                      About Them Ponies               7 April 2017


                               References:
   1. http://jcosneverexisted.deviantart.com/art/Estampado-Brony-Rainbow
      -Dash-330534288
















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

