ATP 59                      About Them Ponies                12 May 2017


                            About Them Ponies
       “Celestial Advice” and connecting the past with the present

   For a show which started in 2010, it is an amazing feat that MLP:FiM
   has begun its seventh season in 2017. To say MLP has been around for
   a while is a bit of an understatement, because at the beginning of
   the 5th and 6th seasons, we could also have claimed that the show had
   been around for a long time. What’s significant about season seven in
   particular is that it precedes six, which means the show has lasted
   longer than twice its initially conceived length.

   Because of Friendship is Magic’s inability to end after season three,
   every season premier following has changed the status quo
   significantly. In season four, it was getting rid of the elements of
   harmony and introducing the Mane6’s journal. In season five, this
   journal was then sort of forgotten about and the new craze was all
   about the cutie map. And in season six, the cutie map too was left
   out of the limelight in favor of casting it upon the new
   mentor-student relationship between Twilight and Starlight. This
   trend would predict that the season seven premier would try, like its
   predecessors, to introduce the new rather than rehash the old, but
   just like this premier breaks precedent by being in a single part
   rather than two, it also breaks precedent by not following this
   trend, and instead focuses its development on smoothing out some
   roughness in continuity.

   For instance, one of my previous criticisms of Starlight’s story arc
   is that her story immediately jumps from her being a proud powerful
   dictator to her being Twilight’s insecure pupil. Because the season
   five finale focused mostly on the epic showdown between Twilight and
   Starlight, there wasn’t time to establish this relationship, and
   while we knew that Starlight was going to renew her studies under
   Twilight, it wasn’t made explicitly clear what that entailed. One
   could argue that the following episode, “Crystal Clear” provided more
   context for the Twilight-Starlight dynamic, but it still wasn’t much
   given that “Crystal Clear” focused more on Sunburst and Starlight
   (not to mention the soon to be named Flurry Heart).

   So in some sense, the show made it all the way through the sixth
   season without ever formally establishing exactly what Starlight’s
   role would be within Twilight’s castle and the show at large.
   However, it is this uncertainty of purpose which drives the conflict
   of the premier, and instead of an epic two episode adventure, we get
   a single episode of Twilight alongside Princess Celestia worrying
   about just what she should do with Starlight Glimmer. While it’s not
   as intense as confronting a larger than life villain like in seasons
   prior, it does a lot more to connect the seasons together than
   “Crystal Clear,” whose plotline seems more like a random encounter
   rather than glue holding the series together.


brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 59                      About Them Ponies                12 May 2017

   Anyways, the primary means by which “Celestial Advice” connects the
   seasons together is the parallelism between Princess Celestia and
   Twilight’s relationship as compared to Twilight and Starlight’s. The
   mentor-student paradigm is obvious, but a voice in my mind begs the
   question of how similar the two relationships really are. It is hard
   to truly answer this question, as we never observed Twilight’s
   relationship with Celestia prior to her moving to Ponyville, however,
   we do know that Twilight studied under Celestia longer than Starlight
   studied under Twilight. As Twilight first began her studies as a
   filly when she gained her cutie mark, it’s likely that she studied
   under her for around four to five years, or however long it takes to
   grow from a filly to a mare. In contrast, Starlight’s been with
   Twilight for not that long; equating one friendship lesson with a
   time span of around a week, it’s likely she’s only been studying for
   a couple of moons. This is significantly shorter than the time
   Twilight spent with Celestia, so I am hesitant to directly compare
   the two. Starlight’s time with Twilight also has been studying
   friendship-lessons and not magic, adding further strain to the
   comparison.

   But on a more subtle note, it’s also not particularly clear whether
   or not Celestia sending Twilight to Ponyville is the same kind of
   deal as Twilight releasing Starlight Glimmer¹ from her studies. The
   episode presents it this way, as it contains a flashback to Princess
   Celestia pacing back and forth pondering what to do with Twilight,
   mirroring Twilight’s uncertainty in the present. This flashback makes
   for a charming connection between the two princesses, but it also
   doesn’t really line up with what happened in the first two episodes.
   Recall that in episode one, Twilight sends a letter to Princess
   Celestia, and in response Celestia sends her to Ponyville on a brief
   mission to make some friends, and by coincidence or not, defeat
   Nightmare Moon in the process. Since the whole situation is prompted
   by Twilight’s letter, the decision to send Twilight to Ponyville
   doesn’t seem like some agonized decision made by Celestia, but rather
   a quick, witty response “you simply must stop reading those dusty old
   books” to Twilight. This, combined with the fact the second episode
   ends with Twilight declining to return to Canterlot, leads us to a
   conclusion that the assignment to Ponyville was temporary, and
   Twilight’s decision to stay there was by consequence rather than by
   Celestial design.

   So on one hoof, the show is definitely taking a close look at what’s
   happened across all the seasons and making connections between them,
   but at the same time ignores some of the finer details. Starlight
   isn’t Twilight Sparkle 2.0, nor is Twilight on the same level as
   Princess Celestia, so while I think the comparison is neat and I
   found the episode enjoyable at large, I am also a little miffed that
   to make these connections the writers have to ignore or contradict
   what we learned in previous episodes.

   Footnotes:

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 59                      About Them Ponies                12 May 2017

   ¹ It also seems a little peculiar for Twilight to free Starlight from
   her studies as it implies that Starlight didn’t enter them of her own
   volition.

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

