ATP 50                      About Them Ponies          30 September 2016


                            About Them Ponies
            “Every Little Thing She Does” and Spectacle Creep

   With the reformation of Starlight Glimmer in the season five finale,
   the writers of our favorite show have tried something new; beyond the
   usual forgive-and-forget treatment of most former antagonists,
   Starlight Glimmer has been fully welcomed in to the lives and affairs
   of the Mane 6. Today she stands as Twlight’s pupil, and in this
   week’s episode we see her once again interacting with our
   protagonists of seasons past. Last time we had an episode like this
   (“No Second Prances”), we got to see her struggle with friendship
   lessons rather than magic spells, and for this latter episode, I
   discussed the failure to be a friend more so than the magical prowess
   of the character. With this week’s episode, both ideas are present
   once again, but this time I think we ought to take a closer look at
   the magic at play.

   Starlight is one heck of a powerful unicorn. Ever since her showdown
   with Twilight, it’s been clear that she is just as powerful as
   Twilight (if not more so) despite being just a unicorn and not having
   any formal training. This doesn’t make any logical sense intuitively,
   so the next angle to look at it is from the perspective of the
   writers and what they were thinking when writing the 5th season
   premier and finale. With the exception of a few finales like “Magical
   Mystery Cure” and “The Best Night Ever”, every finale and premier
   tries to outperform its predecessor. In season one, the elements of
   harmony were enough to immediately stop Nightmare Moon, but in “The
   Return of Harmony” it took a few tries, and by “A Canterlot Wedding”
   the elements weren’t enough. The trend continues as King Sombra can
   only be stopped by an ancient relic, and Lord Tirek who can’t be
   stopped by the magic of all 4 alicorns, thus requiring an even more
   powerful “rainbow power” to be used. Naturally, if the writers wanted
   to keep up with this trend of powerful villain followed by even more
   powerful villain, the season 5 villain would need to be pretty much
   unstoppable, and Starlight Glimmer meets this criteria spot on.

   Considering all of this, it’s fair to say that Starlight Glimmer’s
   magical prowess is the direct result of spectacle creep in My Little
   Pony: Friendship is Magic. For those not too familiar with this term,
   Extra Credits(*1) does a great job explaining this concept with
   regards to video games. The concept states that as any franchise
   continues to expand, its stories become more and more spectacular in
   order to keep people engaged with the franchise, and with Starlight’s
   portrayal of raw ability in this episode, this feels especially true.
   Way back in season one, it used to be impressive that Twilight could
   cast a few simple spells to “vanquish” an Ursa minor. Now nothing
   Twilight can do can be seem as impressive because Starlight is
   capable of performing it and so much more without effort.



brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 50                      About Them Ponies          30 September 2016

   However, the above might be the least of our concerns as the
   spectacle creep may release other problems into the show. For
   instance, the season six premier definitely wasn’t as dramatic as
   earlier season premiers, and it will be interesting to see whether
   the show staff aim for an exciting season finale or switch over to
   slice of life like in season one (because they certainly can’t keep
   one upping season finales forever). Even if they can continue to
   sustain that high voltage of excitement, the show will need to return
   back to slice of life, most likely causing the super dramatic episode
   to feel out of place.

   That’s kind of the feeling I get with this week’s episode. Here we
   have Starlight Glimmer strutting her amazing ability, casting spells
   all over the place, and yet the conflict that arises is only a slight
   friendship problem, not a “holy hell! Starlight just forcibly
   possessed other ponies” problem. To make a real world analogy, this
   is kind of like saying the Cuban Missile Crisis was just an issue of
   commerce. Sure, US – Cuban relations definitely went into a downward
   spiral when trade couldn’t be worked out, but by the point of the
   Crisis, the issue was with the nuclear weapons, not the various
   embargos.

   That said, the spectacle creep has given us a character who magical
   ability may function similar to a nuclear weapon. Starlight gives us
   some instability in Ponyville, and this could be really interesting
   if her actions end up inciting more harm than good. What if her
   apprenticeship with Twilight ends up putting a wedge between Twilight
   and the Mane 6, or a catastrophic spell failure divides the town into
   factions against Starlight? Like her magical ability, Starlight is
   bursting with potential, and I hope that future episode dive into to
   conflicts contrived from her abilities rather than her struggles in
   learning basic courtesy.

   That’s right folks. DON’T TURN YOUR FRIENDS INTO ZOMBIES. WE WILL
   HUNT YOU DOWN AND MAKE YOU PAY FOR YOUR ACTIONS.

   That’s all I have for this week. Drop a comment if you like, and I’ll
   keep looking for more time to write about ponies.














brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 50                      About Them Ponies          30 September 2016


                               References:
   1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pKzJWoZWMOI

















































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

