ATP 6                       About Them Ponies              10 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
                “On Your Marks” and the future of the CMC

   “Cutie Mark Crusaders forever!” If there was one single thing that I
   had to say I loved most about the previous CMC episode “Crusaders of
   the Lost Mark,” it would be this line. It is a promise, that after
   five seasons of Applebloom, Sweetie Belle, and Scootaloo working
   together to discover themselves, they will be left with a great
   friendship that will last their entire life. It is also a promise to
   the viewers that the CMC’s story isn’t over, rather the next chapter
   is about to begin. And this is a promise that I think we all want to
   see fulfilled. The writers now stand at the crossroads, and the next
   chapter of the CMC is now being written. “On Your Marks” stands
   alongside “Call of the Cutie” in the sense that it sets the tone for
   what all future CMC episodes may look like.

   The writers, however, provide not a single direction in which the CMC
   might go, but rather two directions. The first one is the
   transformation of the Cutie Mark Crusaders into the Cutie Mark
   Counselors.  As noted in season five, the CMC get their cutie marks
   in helping other ponies with their cutie mark problems. While I have
   no problem with the CMC having cutie marks about crusading for cutie
   marks (we could even call them “meta cutie marks” if we wanted), I do
   wonder how this is going to factor in to future episodes. Do we
   really expect the CMC to do nothing else besides solve others’ cutie
   mark problems?

   In season five, there was one episode where the cutie mark crusaders
   do exactly that. “Appleoosa’s Most Wanted” features Trouble Shoes, a
   pony stricken with cutie mark issues who ultimately relies on the CMC
   for guidance. I remember that this episode was not particularly well
   received within the fandom for many reasons. For me, I find this
   previous episode disappointing because the focus is mostly on Trouble
   Shoes, who is never seen again after the episode’s end, causing the
   episode to feel disconnected from the main series. Without his return
   to the series, becoming attached to his character simply feels like a
   waste.

   If the Cutie Mark Counselors are to continue their talent of solving
   cutie mark problems, we can anticipate many more episodes with this
   problem. New Pony X comes in with her problem, the CMC rushes to
   solve it, and Pony X is only ever featured in the background there
   on. What’s even worse is that every time this story is repeated, it
   downplays all the similar episodes earlier on, and all future CMC
   episode become entirely predictable. This phenomenon already has
   begun within “On Your Marks” as the new blank flank doesn’t provide
   any new twist on old themes. Heck, I can’t even remember the poor
   colt’s name after my first viewing. Again, this isn’t necessarily a
   problem, unless the episode resolves entirely around this new
   character (which “On Your Marks” does partially).

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 6                       About Them Ponies              10 April 2016

   While I’m not quite sure where the writing staff are going with the
   Cutie Mark Counselors, I will say I’m quite excited by the second
   direction Dave Polsky pulls the Cutie Mark Crusaders. The other half
   of the episode revolves around Apple Bloom. Having finally earned a
   cutie mark, Apple Bloom loses her ability to crusade, and without
   that identity, she is lost. In doing so, the episode provides a
   fascinating commentary on how finding identity may also lead to the
   loss of it, and this is perfect territory for the CMC to explore. The
   quest for identity is something never truly over, and as the CMC
   symbolizes that quest, it’s only natural for them to continue to
   wrestle with their new identity.

   It is this second direction that I really enjoy in this week’s
   episode. It asks the viewer all sorts of questions, among them how to
   stay friends without enjoying the same activities, how to continue
   moving forward once a goal has been achieved, and how to balance
   friends and personal interests. The CMC can go everywhere and
   anywhere now, and that is something I find truly exciting.

   What are your thoughts on the new episode? Make sure to drop a
   comment down below; I will see you all for comment responses on
   Thursday.






























brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

