ATP 7                       About Them Ponies              14 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
               Responses from the fandom: “On Your Marks”

   No comments here on this here blog, but that doesn’t prevent other
   blog ponies from writing about this week’s episode!

   Alexander Throndson writes over on  his blog (*1)

    |
    |  ... if the episode has one significant problem, it's that it's
    |  not about anything. Thematically, it barely goes anywhere, and
    |  narratively, it shows characters' lives changing but doesn't do a
    |  whole lot with that. While the main conflict is about Apple Bloom
    |  figuring out what she'll do on her own, this ultimately serves as
    |  little more than a buildup to the introduction of a new
    |  character, a dancer who hasn't found his cutie mark. Although
    |  this character thankfully doesn't take attention away from Apple
    |  Bloom, his story arc doesn't connect all that meaningfully to the
    |  main plot leading up to it. At the very least, it does coincide
    |  with Apple Bloom deciding to take up dancing, but the two
    |  conflicts never really connect ...
    |

   Alexander brings up an excellent point about how episodes like “On
   Your Marks” really do attempt to tie two conflicts together, often
   unsuccessfully. While I completely agree that this mashup of stories
   is unnecessary, it does make me think more about earlier “double
   episodes” like “Magical Mystery Cure” and “Crusaders of the Lost
   Mark.” Both of these stories could easily have been broken into two
   individual episodes but were not. However, I know many fans mention
   “Crusaders of the Lost Mark” as their favorite episode, and
   Twilight’s “Magical Mystery Cure” occupies a similar place in the
   fandom (it does for me at least).

   The question that comes to mind is how can episodes take on multiple
   plot points without losing focus. With “Magical Mystery Cure,” one
   story was directly followed by the other, making the story feel
   compressed rather than unfocused; it could easily have been expanded
   and developed further, but everything present in the episode held
   together.  As for “Crsuaders of the Lost Mark,” the episode isn’t as
   much compressed as it is a story within a story. The Crusaders
   earning their marks encompasses Pip’s campaign and the fall of
   Diamond Tiara; there’s no way to tell the CMC’s story without
   mentioning that larger context. You could, however, easily talk about
   the election or Diamond Tiara’s reformation without mentioning the
   CMC’s new cutie marks.

   I guess the trick then would be to find a way to make Tender Taps’s
   story a larger part of the Crusaders’. Having Apple Bloom initially
   overlook his dilemma is probably one of the worst ways to connect the

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 7                       About Them Ponies              14 April 2016

   stories together. It also doesn’t help that Apple Bloom’s internal
   conflict was solved immediately upon Scootaloo and Sweetie Belle’s
   arrival. Perhaps the story would have been better if instead of
   instantly forgiving Scootaloo and Sweetie Belle, they tried to make
   it up to her by going to the dance class, and in turn, Applebloom
   suddenly realized that they should help Tender Tap. That way,
   Applebloom could have had more of an epiphany, and there would be
   more of a bond between the CMC and Tender Tap. Of course, all this is
   hypothetical.

   CMC_Scootaloo (*2) writes a fairly extensive response over on
   Equestria daily, of which I’ve pulled the following lines.

    |
    |  So, this episode was something. I went into it completely
    |  overhyped, even more hyped than I'm usually for a new Cutie Mark
    |  Crusaders episode, because it's the first one after they got
    |  their cutie marks. expected and looked forward to the usual kind
    |  of CMC episodes I got to know to; them being together, doing
    |  crazy stuff or solve a problem they run into, with the only
    |  difference that they help other ponies get their cutie marks now,
    |  instead of helping each other to get theirs. I was not prepared
    |  for what I saw. This episode dropped a huge bombshell on me.
    |  Watching it let me be in shock first. They got their cutie marks
    |  together. They turned out to have the same special talent. They
    |  got the same cutie marks. And then they talk about acting
    |  separately and about helping ponies with their marks each on
    |  their own, instead of together?! ... Applebloom's song
    |  contributed to this. So far, when we got to hear a song from them
    |  in a CMC episode, it was always a trio song. This time Applebloom
    |  sung alone, after her friends seemingly left her behind, which
    |  perfectly emphasized on her loneliness and desperation ... Ask
    |  yourself, would you spend your time with things that you actually
    |  hate to do for your best friend? Let's be honest here, your
    |  answer is most likely "No". Even I'm not sure if I would spend
    |  even just parts of my freetime with things I hate or even just
    |  dislike for the sake of a friend of mine. But they did...
    |

   I really like CMC_Scootaloo’s remarks about how deep many of the
   events in this episode can be taken. After 5 years of watching the
   CMC be a unit, indivisible, the mere fact that the CMC have started
   to do activities individually now is really interesting. Looking at
   just the Mane 6 for comparison, we can see that they have stuck
   around together for approximately 100 episodes (the other twenty of
   which were more Spike and CMC related) whereas the CMC have only been
   together for about 15. However, many of the Mane6 episodes show them
   in all sorts of different, individually oriented episodes, whereas
   with the majority of the CMC episodes, they’re all in it, and they’re
   all experiencing the conflict together (even if there is more of an
   emphasis on one of the three). In this sense, the CMC really do

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 7                       About Them Ponies              14 April 2016

   symbolize togetherness more than the Mane6.

   I guess my own question now is will the post-cutie-mark CMC embody
   the same closeness that they symbolized before, and is that something
   we the fandom want to see? I still think of them as that indivisible
   unit, but I suppose that future episodes could go a completely
   different direction. This might be really good for the CMC on an
   individual basis, as it would allow for them to embellish their
   personalities just like each and every one of the Mane 6 has had the
   chance to do over previous seasons, but it would come at the cost of
   no longer having that close, intimate, group of friends that do
   everything for each other as CMC_Scootaloo points out.

   We’re probably too close in to hypothesize correctly what might
   become of the CMC, but I guess we don’t really have much else to do
   until the next CMC episode comes out. Hopefully, we get at least two
   more this season; I’m still waiting for that incredibly catchy Daniel
   Ingram tune to make its appearance once again.

   Our final comment this evening also comes from EQD. Ꜽʸ; writes: (*3)

    |
    |  I think this is why it was disjointed: we were presented with the
    |  dilemma almost immediately. Then we were presented with the
    |  apparent solution 3 minutes into the episode, which lifted the
    |  mood higher because it felt like a problem had been overcome.
    |  Then there was a montage-type thing and then it became apparent
    |  that this wasn't going to be as easy as predicted. The mood was
    |  low again by the 4:30 mark. Then Bulk Biceps seemed to be the
    |  solution to their problems, providing new hope for the characters
    |  and the audience. The mood was high again. However, that dilemma
    |  was quickly resolved and the mood was low again by 6:30. However,
    |  the girls eventually decided to do whatever they want, apparently
    |  solving the dilemma again. However, this proved ineffectual and
    |  the mood was low again by 9:00. That is very fast paced, and it
    |  felt like plots were being explored and discarded as the episode
    |  progressed, leading the audience a bit confused as to what was
    |  actually happening. I think this pacing lead to these events not
    |  delivering the full emotional effect as the highs and lows were
    |  too frequent in my opinion. The episode did have a lot of things
    |  to address, so it's understandable. The song set the episode on a
    |  different course though, and then what seemed to be the central
    |  plot was established ... The animation was very good, and the
    |  music beautiful and played to its full emotional effect. It was
    |  also an incredibly relatable issue, I imagine it would have been
    |  especially relatable for introverts who are "energised" by social
    |  situations to have to depart from their friends. One scene I
    |  particularly enjoyed is the mental breakdown scene, that was
    |  brilliantly executed, although it was resolved a little quickly
    |  ("Well I guess that changes things"), but that is a minor gripe.
    |  So, overall mixed feelings. I mark very harshly, and would

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 7                       About Them Ponies              14 April 2016

    |  probably give either 6.5 or 7 out of 10. lol no one will read
    |  this
    |

   Never say never Ꜽʸ;, some random guy on the internet might look at
   your post five days after you write it and decide to follow up on it.

   Ꜽʸ brings up a great point about how episodes need to have a certain
   structure for the audience to follow its conflict. Back in the season
   one days, many episodes seem to follow a very specific pattern.
   Within the first few minutes, exposition is developed and a potential
   conflict emerges. The next ten to twelve minutes all show various
   (and hopefully humorous) developments of the conflict, be it Twilight
   getting slap-sticked by suddenly falling objects and opening doors
   (Feeling Pinkie Keen), Flutershy bullying more and more ponies in an
   effort to be more assertive (Putting Your Hoof Down), or more
   recently, Pinkie and Rarity searching more and more places in an
   effort to find Maud a gift (The Gift of the Maud Pie). After this
   long period of buildup, something finally breaks, and the episode
   spends the final minutes wrapping up with a friendship lesson. This
   structure, although simple, was effective at exploring the conflict
   in question, and while sometimes the end destination was quite
   apparent, the pathway to get there was always full of twists and
   turns.

   I don’t know what you think, but I know I feel like a lot of newer
   episodes end up feeling like there’s  10-15 minutes of nothing but
   exposition, and by the time the actual conflict is reached, it’s over
   without any further development. Depending on which story you think
   was the more important of the two in this week’s episode (Apple
   Bloom’s or Tender Taps’s), the other probably feels like nothing more
   than exposition or filler material. I personally thought that Apple
   Bloom’s was the main story, and thus the whole Tender Taps thing
   seemed to be more of a side feature. The other alternative would be
   thinking of Tender Taps’s story as the most important, in which the
   episode might feel like it takes too long to get to where it’s going.
   In any case, one story definitely does seem to take precedence over
   the other, which produces mixed results overall.

   That’s all I have for this week’s comment responses. Stay tuned for
   more pony discussion!











brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

ATP 7                       About Them Ponies              14 April 2016


                               References:
   1. http://throndponycorner.blogspot.ca/2016/04/episode-review-on-your
      -marks.html
   2. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/04/mlp-season-6-episode-4-on-yo
      ur-marks.html#comment-2615390577
   3. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/04/mlp-season-6-episode-4-on-yo
      ur-marks.html#comment-2614929437












































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 5]

