ATP 8                       About Them Ponies              17 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
              “Gauntlet of Fire:” All hail the dragon lord!

   Well, it’s happened. My Little Pony has finally decided that ponies
   aren’t enough to keep up our interest and so the writers decided to
   scrap the entire idea and roll along with My Little Dragon instead.
   And I don’t think it’s a bad decision to throw a few more dragons in
   a show; after all, part of what makes friendship magic is that
   magical fantasy world of Equestria, home of ponies and dragons
   everywhere. From hatching dragon eggs, to watching dragon migrations,
   to negotiating with the sleeping beasts, to outright confronting
   them, dragons have had a fairly significant role in the show, and
   that’s before we even look at Spike.

   But this episode does more than just reacquaint us with the
   not-so-unfamiliar species of episodes past. This episode provides us
   with the largest glimpse of dragon society seen to date, and it forms
   the precedent for how all future episodes will depict the species.

   What I want to draw attention to is the fact that the dragons we saw
   in this week’s episode may not be like the dragons of old. In earlier
   seasons, dragons used to be this force of nature that ponies had to
   deal with. They were large, terrifying beasts whose smoke could
   destroy Ponyville, whose greedy desire caused buildings to fall.
   These were the dragons of legend, of myth, and it makes sense that no
   pony knew much about them as studying them would be suicidal. Jump
   forward to the dragons of today’s episode. They’re sentient,
   reasonable, they within a structured society, they all speak English
   quite well. They’re just like ponies except with fire breath and a
   bad attitude. And like all other non-pony races, they don’t have a
   clue about how friendship is supposed to work.

   We’ve seen this kind of species before: the buffalo, the griffins,
   the yaks, the minotaurs. All of them could get along with ponies, but
   for some reason just don’t. Dragons make a nice addition the list,
   and actually seem quite similar to griffons. Both species tend to be
   collectives of individuals who prefer to be isolated, yet somehow end
   up surround by more of themselves. Both species hate ponies; both
   species also hate friendship. This phenomenon is not new, and just
   like with the griffons, it’s never explained. Don’t get me wrong,
   it’s okay to leave parts of the story unexplained, but if you’re
   going to tell a story about dragons, I want to know, “What does it
   mean to be a dragon?”

   Spike has struggled a lot with this identify as seen in the earlier
   “Dragon Quest.” This episode depicts the more terrifying no-talking
   only-fire-breathing dragons, to the less scary teenager dragons, to
   the adorable Spike. Across this spectrum we can see that the older
   the dragons get, the more ruthless and greedy they become.  We also
   know from earlier episodes that dragons also tend to be loners,

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 8                       About Them Ponies              17 April 2016

   preferring to be with their hoards than other dragons. From this,
   Spike concludes that to be a dragon is to be isolated, ruthless, and
   greedy, and as he doesn’t want to be any of those things, he decides
   he’d rather be more like a pony instead of a dragon.

   “Gauntlet of Fire” seems both to keep some of these traits, yet it
   also seems to downplay them as well. The dragons here aren’t entirely
   consumed by greed; they’re all eager enough to win the bloodstone
   scepter (is that what it’s called) but not enough to actually fight
   for it immediately after Spike gains it. Similarly, with so many
   dragons gathering for the dragon lord, it’s hard to call them
   isolationist, and they definitely don’t seem that ruthless after
   abiding by so many different dragon rules. Princess Ember also adds
   to the confusion of what it means to be a dragon as all her
   interactions with Spike are “undragon like” yet she does them
   anyways.

   In fact, the biggest idea of the episode is that dragons could
   benefit as a species by allowing friendship into their hearts, a
   common theme to many MLP episodes. While this is the theme of the
   show at large, all previous episodes featuring dragons (other
   dragons, not Spike) have painted them as creatures which value
   something other than friendship. It is these dragon values that I
   think the episode could have developed more fully, and I think
   exploring reasons for why dragons are greedy, ruthless, and more
   isolated would be fascinating. Instead, the episode dismisses
   traditional dragon values with the typical “it’s because they don’t
   know about friendship” explanation, which I find unsatisfying. How
   has an intelligent species not figured out the old “the enemy of my
   enemy is my friend” logic yet?

   All in all, the episode begins to explore the nature of Equestrian
   dragons, but in doing so changes their image from fire breathing
   monster to intelligent friendable species. It’s not a bad choice,
   though I do find it a little frustrating that our protagonists can
   consistently make friends with any creature instantly.  Making
   friends isn’t that easy, and making friends with creatures that can
   burn your face off should be much more of a challenge. I personally
   liked dragons as a dangerous force that ponies simply had to deal
   with. After all, if the mane 6 always get along with each other, and
   they get along with the reformed villains, and they get along with
   every species, there’s no plausible source of conflict.

   It will be interesting to see whether the dragons provide any lasting
   changes to the show as a whole. So as always, stay tuned for more
   ponies, and leave a comment below, telling me what you think of
   DRAGONS! (or anything else for that matter)





brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

