ATP 9                       About Them Ponies              21 April 2016


                            About Them Ponies
              Comments from the fandom: “Gauntlet of Fire”

   Looks like much of the fandom really enjoyed this past week’s
   episode. Let’s hear what you all had to say about it.

   Harwick(*1)writes:

    |
    |  That was a fun episode... Pretty straightforward, but loaded with
    |  world building and a good show from all of the characters. I
    |  liked that Celestia and Luna had come to Ponyville just to visit,
    |  as Celestia seemed to do more often in Season 1. I'll take more
    |  Celestia any way I can get her.
    |
    |  The new dragons were welcome characters. (Former) Dragon Lord
    |  Torch had a very cool look and some great facial animation. I
    |  loved his voice acting as well. I hope that we see more of him
    |  sometime. (New) Dragon Lord Ember was a solid new character with
    |  a nice design and a good vocal performance as well. I'm sure that
    |  she'll be back, (and I'm all for the inevitable shipping of her
    |  and her new friend Spike.). I really like that these dragons wear
    |  armor too... It allows for some cool looks.
    |
    |  Mostly, I really like this continuing theme of the ponies
    |  spreading friendship to other cultures and forming allies...
    |  Gilda and the griffons last year, Ember and the dragons this
    |  year. Spike bringing the concept to his kind was a great use for
    |  him, and he really got to shine this episode. Plus, they did a
    |  nice job of keeping Twilight and Rarity to the sidelines without
    |  taking anything away from them.
    |
    |  All in all, a really solid episode. I look forward to what comes
    |  next!
    |

   As Harwick points out, there are many developments in the episode,
   but I wouldn’t agree that all of them are good (not that I would say
   any strike me as particularly bad either). Take the whole bringing
   friendship to the dragons idea; we’ve seen it already in previous
   episodes like “The Lost Treasure of Griffinstone”and I don’t
   particularly resonate well with it. Part of the reason that
   friendship is such a complicated topic is that while it usually
   benefits both parties, it’s completely optional, and both parties
   must choose to partake in it. But these episodes tend to make
   friendship feel less like a choice and more like something forced
   upon them. Did Ember really choose Spike as a friend, or was it
   entirely out of necessity to survive? Ember would have drowned if
   Spike didn’t save her at the beginning, so she technically owes Spike
   a life debt, and the friendship might be a part of that repayment.

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 1]

ATP 9                       About Them Ponies              21 April 2016

   After all, Spike’s dragon code definitely made him do all sorts of
   obedient stuff in “Spike at Your Service;” why wouldn’t the same
   apply to Ember? But I digress. I suppose the same sort of contrived
   friendship could be said of the Mane 6. However, the Mane 6’s
   friendship was developed later on; I doubt they’ll do the same for
   Ember and Spike’s.

   And speaking of Spike, I know Harwick and some other people say that
   Spike really shined in this episode. I agree that Spike definitely
   got to show his strengths here, but I think the episode actually
   suffers because of it. The best of the Mane 6 episodes often feature
   the Mane 6 facing a trial of sorts; it could be themselves, getting
   along with another pony, or sometimes an antagonist. In either case,
   the plot revolves around the pony’s struggle and ultimate triumph.
   Spike doesn’t struggle in this episode though; he only triumphs
   without facing much adversity. Sure, Garble does provide a little bit
   of a push back, but for the most part he’s not a real obstacle; Spike
   and Ember pretty much waltz all the way into the final cavern no
   problem.

   I much prefer the Spike Episode “Equestria Games” as Spike is forced
   to confront his own minor misfortune, without belittling his
   character. Here he also gets to save the day by melting the ice
   cloud, but this brave deed ends up meaning a lot more than Spike
   becoming some dragon lord, as it connects back to his own personal
   conflict. It is this connection that I feel is missing from this
   week’s episode as the title of dragon lord is just that, a title.
   There’s no deeper meaning behind it, no underlying struggle that
   Spike or Ember faced to earn the title.

   Lord Seraph(*2)writes:

    |
    |  Garble has to be one of the biggest edgelords the show has ever
    |  introduced yet. He legitimately wants to hurt or possibly kill
    |  ponies for revenge. I guess you can imagine what he could have
    |  done to Rare and Twi had [S]pike not intervened.
    |

   I don’t know if I’d agree with you on this one Lord Seraph. Starlight
   Glimmer herself didn’t really mind screwing over all of pony (and
   dragon) kind in the season 5 finale. There’s also Lord Tirek, who
   tried to steal the magic from every pony (which I’d imagine is
   probably worse than rape). But unlike Garble, both of these
   protagonists actually had some power behind their thoughts; Garble
   has next to nothing.

   I suppose we could go deeper and start psychoanalyzing Garble. He
   probably had a really rough childhood and didn’t end up making any
   friends, so he bullied other dragons into submission. Going around,
   crushing baby phoenix eggs, all because of his own insecurities. He

brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 2]

ATP 9                       About Them Ponies              21 April 2016

   probably also has a rough relationship with his mother. On a
   completely unrelated note, he kind of reminds me of people on EQD
   nightly discussions, the ones who often go around shouting atrocities
   that they have no way of enforcing. Better yet, I bet he’s a brony in
   the making. Currently in the unenlightened phase, he’s all sour and
   bitter until he discovers the magic of friendship. I bet you by next
   seasons he’s an all-out fanboy who wears Princess Cadance t-shirts
   and plays around with his Spike figurines. Trust me, he’ll get there
   someday.

   Piperita(*3)writes:

    |
    |  Anyone else feel like Twilight and Rarity were not in the
    |  original script? Their scenes had about zero relevance to the
    |  story and when they appeared they either just commented on what
    |  happened or simply froze. It was pretty much an episode that
    |  didn't need them and actually worked quite well with the acting
    |  characters and for me the ponies even damaged the episode's flow
    |  at times.
    |

   I totally agree with Piperita on this one. Twilight and Rarity didn’t
   really have a good purpose for being in the episode, and it didn’t
   really make much sense when Twilight and Rarity couldn’t protect
   themselves in that final fight scene. I do think it made the episode
   funnier though, and it’s enjoyable to postulate about how they were
   able to stay on Spike’s tail the entire time.

   Spike’s definitely a well-established character, and the audience is
   very used to entire episodes being devoted to just him, but he’s also
   Twilight’s assistant. There’s so many episodes where the two of them
   are inseparable, and if Spike is willing to follow Twilight all
   around Equestria, I so no reason why Twilight shouldn’t accompany him
   on a brief detour from Ponyville. In this sense, it makes perfect
   sense that Twilight would come along, even if there was no real
   reason for doing so (Spike also has been in many a place without
   reason). If the writers want to start breaking away from trend, it
   could easily be done by utilizing the princess status of Twilight. If
   she’s given several different tasks to complete, she might allow
   Spike to help her divide and conquer the work load. This would give
   Spike some autonomy, and after a few episodes, the fandom would
   probably be very used to seeing Spike simply do tasks on his own.

   Rarity though, well, a girl’s gotta do what a girl’s gotta do, right?







brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 3]

ATP 9                       About Them Ponies              21 April 2016


                               References:
   1. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/04/mlp-season-6-episode-5-gaunt
      let-of-fire.html#comment-2627227119
   2. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/04/mlp-season-6-episode-5-gaunt
      let-of-fire.html#comment-2627123384
   3. http://www.equestriadaily.com/2016/04/mlp-season-6-episode-5-gaunt
      let-of-fire.html#comment-2627071824












































brambleshadow4                                                  [Page 4]

